Mutations in SHP-2 phosphatase that cause hyperactivation of its catalytic activity have been identified in human leukemias, particularly juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia, which is characterized by hypersensitivity of myeloid progenitor cells to granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin (IL)-3. However, the molecular mechanisms by which gain-of-function (GOF) mutations of SHP-2 induce hematopoietic malignancies are not fully understood. Our previous studies have shown that SHP-2 plays an essential role in IL-3 signal transduction in both catalytic-dependent and -independent manners and that overexpression (5-6-fold) of wild type (WT) SHP-2 attenuates IL-3-mediated hematopoietic cell function through accelerated dephosphorylation of STAT5. These results raised the possibility that SHP-2-associated leukemias are not solely attributed to the increased catalytic activity of GOF mutant SHP-2. GOF mutant SHP-2 must have gained additional capacities. To test this possibility, we investigated effects of a GOF mutation of SHP-2 (SHP-2 E76K) on hematopoietic cell function and IL-3 signal transduction by comparing with those of overexpressed WT SHP-2. Our results showed that SHP-2 E76K mutation caused myeloproliferative disease in mice, while overexpression of WT SHP-2 decreased hematopoietic potential of the transduced cells in recipient animals. The E76K mutation in the N-terminal Src homology 2 domain increased interactions of mutant SHP-2 with Grb2, Gab2, and p85, leading to hyperactivation of IL-3-induced Erk and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathways. In addition, despite the substantial increase in the catalytic activity, dephosphorylation of STAT5 by SHP-2 E76K was dampened. Furthermore, catalytically inactive SHP-2 E76K with an additional C459S mutation retained the capability to increase the interaction with Gab2 and to enhance the activation of the PI3K pathway. Taken together, these studies suggest that in addition to the elevated catalytic activity, fundamental changes in physical and functional interactions between GOF mutant SHP-2 and signaling partners also play an important role in SHP-2-related leukemigenesis.Defects in lysosomal trafficking pathways lead to decreased cell viability and are associated with progressive disorders in humans. Previously we have found that loss-of-function (LOF) mutations in the Drosophila gene blue cheese (bchs) lead to reduced adult life span, increased neuronal death, and widespread CNS degeneration that is associated with the formation of ubiquitinated-protein aggregates. To identify potential genes that participate in the bchs functional pathway, we conducted a genetic modifier screen based on alterations of an eye phenotype that arises from high-level overexpression of Bchs. We found that mutations in select autophagic and endocytic trafficking genes, defects in cytoskeletal and motor proteins, as well as mutations in the SUMO and ubiquitin signaling pathways behave as modifiers of the Bchs gain-of-function (GOF) eye phenotype. Individual mutant alleles that produced viable adults were further examined for bchs-like phenotypes. Mutations in several lysosomal trafficking genes resulted in significantly decreased adult life spans and several mutants showed changes in ubiquitinated protein profiles as young adults. This work represents a novel approach to examine the role that lysosomal transport and function have on adult viability. The genes characterized in this study have direct human homologs, suggesting that similar defects in lysosomal transport may play a role in human health and age-related processes.Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins play a crucial role in the adaptation of cells to stimulation by G protein-coupled receptors via heterotrimeric G proteins. Alterations in RGS function have been implicated in a wide range of disease states, leading to many researchers focusing on controlling the action of these regulatory proteins. Previous studies have centered on reducing or inhibiting the action of RGS proteins, utilizing inactive mutants or small molecular RGS inhibitors. Here we describe the isolation and characterization of a novel human RGS4 mutant which displays enhanced or gain-of-function (GOF) activity. RGS4(S30C) demonstrates GOF activity both in an in vivo yeast-based signalling pathway and in vitro against the Galpha(o1) subunit contained in an alpha(2A)-adrenoreceptor-Galpha(o1)(C351I) fusion protein. Mutational analysis of serine 30 identified a number of alternative substitutions that result in GOF activity. GOF activity was retained upon transposition of the serine 30-cysteine mutation to the equivalent serine residue in human RGS16. As with previously identified GOF mutants, RGS4(S30C/S30F/S30K) demonstrate increased steady state protein levels, however these mutants also demonstrate enhanced GAP activity through an additional mechanism distinct from the increased protein content. The identification of human RGS mutants with GOF activity may provide novel therapeutic agents for the treatment of signaling-based diseases and the ability to transpose these mutations to other human RGS proteins extends their application to multiple pathways.Mutant p53 proteins are thought to have acquired a "gain of function" (GOF) activity that mainly contributes to tumor aggressiveness. Previously we reported that constitutive downregulation of mutant p53 by RNA interference reduces the tumorigenicity of cancer cells in an animal model; however, effects of adaptation to long-term mutant p53 inhibition could not be excluded. To address this point, mimicking more physiological conditions, we now describe the establishment of a lentiviral-based system for conditional interference with mutant p53 expression. In vivo studies assessed the efficacy of conditional RNA interference in inhibiting gain of function activity of mutant p53 proteins by reducing tumor growth ability. Moreover by using this system, microarray data were validated in vitro and in vivo and putative mutant p53 target genes that may contribute to its gain of function effects in cancer were identified. Results are confirmatory that depletion of mutant p53 protein impacts on tumor malignancy and validated the inducible lentiviral-based system as an efficient tool to study the gain of function activity of human tumor derived p53 mutants.The melanocortin 1 receptor, a Gs protein-coupled receptor expressed in epidermal melanocytes, is a major determinant of skin pigmentation and phototype and an important contributor to melanoma risk. MC1R activation stimulates synthesis of black, strongly photoprotective eumelanin pigments. Several MC1R alleles are associated with red hair, fair skin, increased sensitivity to ultraviolet radiation, and increased skin cancer risk. The MC1R gene is highly polymorphic, but only a few naturally occurring alleles have been functionally characterized, which complicates the establishment of accurate correlations between the signaling properties of mutant alleles and defined cutaneous phenotypes. We report the functional characterization of six MC1R alleles found in Spanish melanoma patients. Two variants (c.152T>C, p.Val51Ala and c.865T>C, p.Cys289Arg) have never been described, and the others (c.112G>A, p.Val38Met; c.122C>T, p.Ser41Phe; c.383T>C, p.Met128Thr; and c.842A>G, p.Asn281Ser) have not been analyzed for function. p.Asn281Ser corresponds to a functionally silent polymorphism. The other mutations are associated with varying degrees of loss of function (LOF), from moderate decreases in coupling to the cAMP pathway (p.Val38Met and p.Val51Ala) to nearly complete absence of functional coupling (p.Ser41Phe, p.Met128Thr, and p.Cys289Arg). The LOF p.Met128Thr and p.Cys289Arg mutants are trafficked to the cell surface, but are unable to bind agonists efficiently. Conversely, LOF of p.Val38Met, p.Ser41Phe, and p.Val51Ala is due to reduced cell surface expression as a consequence of retention in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Therefore, LOF of MC1R alleles is frequently associated with aberrant forward trafficking and accumulation within the ER or with inability to bind properly the activatory ligand.BACKGROUND: p53 is the most commonly mutated tumor suppressor gene in human cancers. In addition to the loss of tumor suppression function and exertion of dominant-negative effects over the remaining wild-type protein, several p53 mutants can gain novel oncogenic functions (gain-of-function, GOF) that actively regulate cancer development and progression. In human endometrial cancer, p53 mutation is more often associated with aggressive nonendometrioid cancer. However, it was unknown if p53 mutants contributed to endometrial cancer progression through the GOF properties.
METHODS: To clarify the relationship between expression of p53 GOF mutation (p53-R175H) and invasive potential of human endometrial cancer KLE cells, we tested the consequences of up-regulation and down-regulation of p53-R175H in KLE cells by inducing p53-R175H expression vector or suppressing the p53 gene with short hairpin RNA.
RESULTS: We found that forced over-expression of p53-R175H significantly promoted cell migration and invasion, and induced activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathway. Conversely, suppression of p53-R175H with short hairpin RNA significantly inhibited cell migration and invasion, and resulted in attenuation of EGFR/PI3K/AKT pathway.
CONCLUSION: These findings show for the first time that elevated expression of p53-R175H mutant may exert gain-of-function activity to activate the EGFR/PI3K/AKT pathway and thus may contribute to the invasive phenotype in endometrial cancer.Deregulation of signaling pathways, through mutation or other molecular changes, can ultimately result in disease. The tyrosine phosphatase Shp2 has emerged as a major regulator of receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) and cytokine receptor signaling. In the last decade, germline mutations in the human PTPN11 gene, encoding Shp2, were linked to Noonan (NS) and LEOPARD syndromes, two multisymptomatic developmental disorders that are characterized by short stature, craniofacial defects, cardiac defects, and mental retardation. Somatic Shp2 mutations are also associated with several types of human malignancies, such as the most common juvenile leukemia, juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML). Whereas NS and JMML are caused by gain-of-function (GOF) mutations of Shp2, loss-of-function (LOF) mutations are thought to be associated with LEOPARD syndrome. Animal models that carry conditional LOF and GOF mutations have allowed a better understanding of the mechanism of Shp2 function in disease, and shed light on the role of Shp2 in signaling pathways that control decisive events during embryonic development or during cellular transformation/tumorigenesis.p53 deficiency enhances the efficiency of somatic cell reprogramming to a pluripotent state. As p53 is usually mutated in human tumors and many mutated forms of p53 gain novel activities, we studied the influence of mutant p53 (mut-p53) on somatic cell reprogramming. Our data indicate a novel gain of function (GOF) property for mut-p53, which markedly enhanced the efficiency of the reprogramming process compared with p53 deficiency. Importantly, this novel activity of mut-p53 induced alterations in the characteristics of the reprogrammed cells. Although p53 knockout (KO) cells reprogrammed with only Oct4 and Sox2 maintained their pluripotent capacity in vivo, reprogrammed cells expressing mutant p53 lost this capability and gave rise to malignant tumors. This novel GOF of mut-p53 is not attributed to its effect on proliferation, as both p53 KO and mut-p53 cells displayed similar proliferation rates. In addition, we demonstrate an oncogenic activity of Klf4, as its overexpression in either p53 KO or mut-p53 cells induced aggressive tumors. Overall, our data show that reprogrammed cells with the capacity to differentiate into the three germ layers in vitro can form malignant tumors, suggesting that in genetically unstable cells, such as those in which p53 is mutated, reprogramming may result in the generation of cells with malignant tumor-forming potential.AIMS: The role of CYP pharmacogenetics in the bioactivation of cyclophosphamide is still controversial. Recent clinical studies have suggested a role for either CYP2C19 or CYP2B6. The aim of this study was to clarify the role of these pharmacogenes.
METHODS: We used a combined in vitro-in vivo approach to determine the role of these pharmacogenes in the bioactivation of the prodrug to 4-hydroxy cyclophosphamide (4-OHCP). Cyclophosphamide metabolism was determined in a human liver biobank (n= 14) and in patients receiving the drug for treatment of lupus nephritis (n= 16)
RESULTS: In livers of known CYP2C19 and CYP2B6 genotype and protein expression we observed that there was a combined role for both CYP2C19 and CYP2B6 in the bioactivation of cyclophosphamide in vitro. The presence of at least one loss of function (LoF) allele at either CYP2C19 or CYP2B6 resulted in a significant decrease in both V(max) (P= 0.028) and CL(int) (P= 0.0017) compared with livers with no LoF alleles. This dual genotype relationship was also observed in a preliminary clinical study, with patients who had ≥1 LoF allele at either CYP2C19 or CYP2B6 also displaying significantly (P= 0.0316) lower bioactivation of cyclophosphamide. The mean 4-OHCP : CP bioactivation ratio was 0.0014 (95% CI 0.0007, 0.002) compared with 0.0071 (95% CI 0.0001, 0.014) in patients with no LoF alleles at either of these genes.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of ≥1 LoF allele(s) at either CYP2B6 or CYP2C19 appeared to result in decreased bioactivation of cyclophosphamide both in vitro and in patients. Further clinical studies to confirm this relationship are warranted.More than half of all human cancers are associated with mutations of the TP53 gene. In regard to the functional interaction with the remaining wild-type (WT) p53 allele, p53 mutations are classified into two types, recessive and dominant-negative (DN) mutations. The latter mutant protein has a DN activity over the remaining WT allele. We previously showed that the DN p53 mutant was useful as a predictor of poor outcome or a risk factor for metastatic recurrence in patients with some types of cancers, regardless of the presence or absence of loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of WT p53, suggesting that the DN p53 had 'gain-of-function (GOF)' activity besides the transdominance function. In this study, we investigated GOF activity of two DN p53 mutants which had a point mutation at codon 248 (R248Q and R248W), one of the hot spots, by transfecting them respectively into H1299 cells which originally expressed no p53 protein. Growth activity of the transfectants with the two mutants was not different from that of parent or Mock transfectants. Meanwhile, in vitro invasions of Matrigel and type I collagen gel by R248Q-transfectants were significantly higher than those by R248W-transfectants or the control cells. However, there were no differences in cell motile activities, expressions of extracellular matrix-degradative enzymes such as matrix metalloproteinases, urokinase-type plasminogen activator and heparanase, and their inhibitors, between R248Q- and R248W-transfectants. These findings indicate that the p53 mutants have a different quality in GOF activities even if the mutations occurred at the same codon. And detailed information of the status of p53, including transdominancy and GOF activity, is expected to be useful for diagnosis and therapeutic strategy fitting the individual patients.The role of dominant transforming p53 in carcinogenesis is poorly understood. Our previous data suggested that aberrant p53 proteins can enhance tumorigenesis and metastasis. Here, we examined potential mechanisms through which gain-of-function (GOF) p53 proteins can induce motility. Cells expressing GOF p53 -R175H, -R273H and -D281G showed enhanced migration, which was reversed by RNA interference (RNAi) or transactivation-deficient mutants. In cells with engineered or endogenous p53 mutants, enhanced migration was reduced by downregulation of nuclear factor-kappaB2, a GOF p53 target. We found that GOF p53 proteins upregulate CXC-chemokine expression, the inflammatory mediators that contribute to multiple aspects of tumorigenesis. Elevated expression of CXCL5, CXCL8 and CXCL12 was found in cells expressing oncogenic p53. Transcription was elevated as CXCL5 and CXCL8 promoter activity was higher in cells expressing GOF p53, whereas wild-type p53 repressed promoter activity. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed enhanced presence of acetylated histone H3 on the CXCL5 promoter in H1299/R273H cells, in agreement with increased transcriptional activity of the promoter, whereas RNAi-mediated repression of CXCL5 inhibited cell migration. Consistent with this, knockdown of the endogenous mutant p53 in lung cancer or melanoma cells reduced CXCL5 expression and cell migration. Furthermore, short hairpin RNA knockdown of mutant p53 in MDA-MB-231 cells reduced expression of a number of key targets, including several chemokines and other inflammatory mediators. Finally, CXCL5 expression was also elevated in lung tumor samples containing GOF p53, indicating relevance to human cancer. The data suggest a mechanistic link between GOF p53 proteins and chemokines in enhanced cell motility.p53 mutations are mostly single amino acid changes resulting in expression of a stable mutant protein with "gain of function" (GOF) activity having a dominant oncogenic role rather than simple loss of function of wild-type p53. Knock-down of mutant p53 in human lung cancer cell lines with different endogenous p53 mutants results in loss of GOF activity as shown by lowering of cell growth rate. Two lung cancer cell lines, ABC1 and H1437, carrying endogenous mutants p53-P278S and -R267P, show reduction in growth rate on knock-down on p53 levels. However, whereas reduction of the p53 level induces loss of tumorigenicity in nude mice for ABC1 cells, it escalates tumorigenicity for H1437 cells. We have tested their transactivation potential on p53 target gene promoters by performing transient transcriptional assays in the p53-null H1299 lung cancer cell line. Interestingly, while the mutant p53 target promoter Axl was activated by both the mutants, the p21 promoter was activated by p53-R267P and wild-type p53 but not by p53-P278S; showing a clear difference in transcriptional activity between the two mutants. Our results demonstrate allele specificity between GOF p53 mutants and attempt to show that the specificity is dependent on the transactivation property of GOF p53; it also suggests importance of p21 activation in tumor suppression by p53.p53 mutations are present in up to 70% of lung cancer. Cancer cells with p53 mutations, in general, grow more aggressively than those with wild-type p53 or no p53. Expression of tumor-derived mutant p53 in cells leads to up-regulated expression of genes that may affect cell growth and oncogenesis. In our study of this aggressive phenotype, we have investigated the receptor protein tyrosine kinase Axl, which is up-regulated by p53 mutants at both RNA and protein levels in H1299 lung cancer cells expressing mutants p53-R175H, -R273H, and -D281G. Knockdown of endogenous mutant p53 levels in human lung cancer cells H1048 (p53-R273C) and H1437 (p53-R267P) led to a reduction in the level of Axl as well. This effect on Axl expression is refractory to the mutations at positions 22 and 23 of p53, suggesting that p53's transactivation domain may not play a critical role in the up-regulation of Axl gene expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays carried out with acetylated histone antibodies demonstrated induced histone acetylation on the Axl promoter region by mutant p53. Direct mutant p53 nucleation on the Axl promoter was demonstrated by ChIP assays using antibodies against p53. The Axl promoter has a p53/p63 binding site, which however is not required for mutant p53-mediated transactivation. Knockdown of Axl by Axl-specific RNAi caused a reduction of gain-of-function (GOF) activities, reducing the cell growth rate and motility rate in lung cancer cells expressing mutant p53. This indicates that for lung cancer cell lines with mutant p53, GOF activities are mediated in part through Axl.Candida glabrata is an emerging opportunistic pathogen that is known to develop resistance to azole drugs due to increased drug efflux. The mechanism consists of CgPDR1-mediated upregulation of ATP-binding cassette transporters. A range of gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in CgPDR1 have been found to lead not only to azole resistance but also to enhanced virulence. This implicates CgPDR1 in the regulation of the interaction of C. glabrata with the host. To identify specific CgPDR1-regulated steps of the host-pathogen interaction, we investigated in this work the interaction of selected CgPDR1 GOF mutants with murine bone marrow-derived macrophages and human acute monocytic leukemia cell line (THP-1)-derived macrophages, as well as different epithelial cell lines. GOF mutations in CgPDR1 did not influence survival and replication within macrophages following phagocytosis but led to decreased adherence to and uptake by macrophages. This may allow evasion from the host's innate cellular immune response. The interaction with epithelial cells revealed an opposite trend, suggesting that GOF mutations in CgPDR1 may favor epithelial colonization of the host by C. glabrata through increased adherence to epithelial cell layers. These data reveal that GOF mutations in CgPDR1 modulate the interaction with host cells in ways that may contribute to increased virulence.The tumor suppressor p53 is frequently mutated in human cancer. Common mutant p53 (mutp53) isoforms can actively promote cancer through gain-of-function (GOF) mechanisms. We report that mutp53 prolongs TNF-α-induced NF-κB activation in cultured cells and intestinal organoid cultures. Remarkably, when exposed to dextran sulfate sodium, mice harboring a germline p53 mutation develop severe chronic inflammation and persistent tissue damage, and are highly prone to inflammation-associated colon cancer. This mutp53 GOF is manifested by rapid onset of flat dysplastic lesions that progress to invasive carcinoma with mutp53 accumulation and augmented NF-κB activation, faithfully recapitulating features frequently observed in human colitis-associated colorectal cancer (CAC). These findings might explain the early appearance of p53 mutations in human CAC.PURPOSE: Inactivation of TP53, which occurs predominantly by missense mutations in exons 4-9, is a major genetic alteration in a subset of human cancer. In spite of growing evidence that gain-of-function (GOF) mutations of p53 also have oncogenic activity, little is known about the clinical relevance of these mutations.
METHODS: The clinicopathological features of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGS-OvCa) patients with GOF p53 mutations were evaluated according to a comprehensive somatic mutation profile comprised of whole exome sequencing, mRNA expression, and protein expression profiles obtained from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA).
RESULTS: Patients with a mutant p53 protein (mutp53) with a GOF mutation showed higher p53 mRNA and protein expression levels than patients with p53 mutation with no evidence of GOF (NE-GOF). GOF mutations were more likely to occur within mutational hotspots, and at CpG sites, and resulted in mutp53 with higher functional severity (FS) scores. Clinically, patients with GOF mutations showed a higher frequency of platinum resistance (22/58, 37.9%) than patients with NE-GOF mutations (12/56, 21.4%) (p=0.054). Furthermore, patients with GOF mutations were more likely to develop distant metastasis (36/55, 65.5%) than local recurrence (19/55, 34.5%), whereas patients with NE-GOF mutations showed a higher frequency of locoregional recurrence (26/47, 55.3%) than distant metastasis (21/47, 44.7%) (p=0.035). There were no differences in overall or progression-free survival between patients with GOF or NE-GOF mutp53.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that patient with GOF mutp53 is characterized by a greater likelihood of platinum treatment resistance and distant metastatic properties in HGS-OvCa.The tumour suppressor p53 is frequently mutated in tumours. Mutant p53 (Mutp53) proteins often gain new activities in promoting tumorigenesis, defined as gain-of-function (GOF). Mutp53 can accumulate to high levels in tumours, which promotes mutp53 GOF in tumorigenesis. The mechanism of mutp53 accumulation is poorly understood. Here we find that MDM2 isoforms promote mutp53 accumulation in tumours. MDM2 isoform B (MDM2-B), the MDM2 isoform most frequently over-expressed in human tumours, interacts with full-length MDM2 to inhibit MDM2-mediated mutp53 degradation, promoting mutp53 accumulation and GOF in tumorigenesis. Furthermore, MDM2-B overexpression correlates with mutp53 accumulation in human tumours. In mutp53 knock-in mice, a MDM2 isoform similar to human MDM2-B is overexpressed in the majority of tumours, which promotes mutp53 accumulation and tumorigenesis. Thus, overexpression of MDM2 isoforms promotes mutp53 accumulation in tumours, contributing to mutp53 GOF in tumorigenesis. This may be an important mechanism by which MDM2 isoforms promote tumorigenesis.Osteosarcoma is a highly metastatic tumor affecting adolescents, for which there is no second-line chemotherapy. As suggested for most tumors, its capability to overgrow is probably driven by cancer stem cells (CSCs), and finding new targets to kill CSCs may be critical for improving patient survival. TP53 is the most frequently mutated tumor suppressor gene in cancers and mutant p53 protein (mutp53) can acquire gain of function (GOF) strongly contributing to malignancy. Studies thus far have not shown p53-GOF in osteosarcoma. Here, we investigated TP53 gene status/role in 3AB-OS cells-a highly aggressive CSC line previously selected from human osteosarcoma MG63 cells-to evaluate its involvement in promoting proliferation, invasiveness, resistance to apoptosis and stemness. By RT-PCR, methylation-specific PCR, fluorescent in situ hybridization, DNA sequence, western blot and immunofluorescence analyses, we have shown that-in comparison with parental MG63 cells where TP53 gene is hypermethylated, rearranged and in single copy-in 3AB-OS cells, TP53 is unmethylated, rearranged and in multiple copies, and mutp53 (p53-R248W/P72R) is post-translationally modified and with nuclear localization. p53-R248W/P72R-knockdown by short-interfering RNA reduced the growth and replication rate of 3AB-OS cells, markedly increasing cell cycle inhibitor levels and sensitized 3AB-OS cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis by DR5 up-regulation; moreover, it strongly decreased the levels of stemness and invasiveness genes. We have also found that the ectopic expression of p53-R248W/P72R in MG63 cells promoted cancer stem-like features, as high proliferation rate, sphere formation, clonogenic growth, high migration and invasive ability; furthermore, it strongly increased the levels of stemness proteins. Overall, the findings suggest the involvement of p53-R248W/P72R at the origin of the aberrant characters of the 3AB-OS cells with the hypothesis that its GOF can be at the root of the dedifferentiation of MG63 cells into CSCs.Mutation of p53 is the most common genetic change in human cancer, causing complex effects including not only loss of wild-type function but also gain of novel oncogenic functions (GOF). It is increasingly likely that p53-hotspot mutations may confer different types and magnitudes of GOF, but the evidences are mainly supported by cellular and transgenic animal models. Here we combine large-scale cancer genomic data to characterize the prognostic significance of different p53 mutations in human cancers. Unexpectedly, only mutations on the Arg248 and Arg282 positions displayed significant association with shorter patient survival, but such association was not evident for other hotspot GOF mutations. Gene set enrichment analysis on these mutations revealed higher activity of drug-metabolizing enzymes, including the CYP3A4 cytochrome P450. Ectopic expression of p53 mutant R282W in H1299 and SaOS2 cells significantly upregulated CYP3A4 mRNA and protein levels, and cancer cell lines bearing mortality-associated p53 mutations display higher CYP3A4 expression and resistance to several CYP3A4-metabolized chemotherapeutic drugs. Our results suggest that p53 mutations have unequal GOF activities in human cancers, and future evaluation of p53 as a cancer biomarker should consider which mutation is present in the tumor, rather than having comparison between wild-type and mutant genotypes.The cloaca is temporally formed and eventually divided by the urorectal septum (URS) during urogenital and anorectal organ development. Although congenital malformations, such as anorectal malformations (ARMs), are frequently observed during this process, the underlying pathogenic mechanisms remain unclear. β-Catenin is a critical component of canonical Wnt signaling and is essential for the regulation of cell differentiation and morphogenesis during embryogenesis. The expression of β-catenin is observed in endodermal epithelia, including URS epithelia. We modulated the β-catenin gene conditionally in endodermal epithelia by utilizing tamoxifen-inducible Cre driver line (Shh(CreERT2)). Both β-catenin loss- and gain-of-function (LOF and GOF) mutants displayed abnormal clefts in the perineal region and hypoplastic elongation of the URS. The mutants also displayed reduced cell proliferation in the URS mesenchyme. In addition, the β-catenin GOF mutants displayed reduced apoptosis and subsequently increased apoptosis in the URS epithelium. This instability possibly resulted in reduced expression levels of differentiation markers, such as keratin 1 and filaggrin, in the perineal epithelia. The expression of bone morphogenetic protein (Bmp) genes, such as Bmp4 and Bmp7, was also ectopically induced in the epithelia of the URS in the β-catenin GOF mutants. The expression of the Msx2 gene and phosphorylated-Smad1/5/8, possible readouts of Bmp signaling, was also increased in the mutants. Moreover, we introduced an additional mutation for a Bmp receptor gene: BmprIA. The Shh(CreERT2/+); β-catenin(flox(ex3)/+); BmprIA(flox/-) mutants displayed partial restoration of URS elongation compared with the β-catenin GOF mutants. These results indicate that some ARM phenotypes in the β-catenin GOF mutants were caused by abnormal Bmp signaling. The current analysis revealed the close relation of endodermal β-catenin signaling to the ARM phenotypes. These results are considered to shed light on the pathogenic mechanisms of human ARMs.In mammalian urorectal development, the urorectal septum (urs) descends from the ventral body wall to the cloaca membrane (cm) to partition the cloaca into urogenital sinus and rectum. Defective urs growth results in human congenital anorectal malformations (ARMs), and their pathogenic mechanisms are unclear. Recent studies only focused on the importance of urs mesenchyme proliferation, which is induced by endoderm-derived Sonic Hedgehog (Shh). Here, we showed that the programmed cell death of the apical urs and proximal cm endoderm is particularly crucial for the growth of urs during septation. The apoptotic endoderm was closely associated with the tempo-spatial expression of Wnt inhibitory factor 1 (Wif1), which is an inhibitor of Wnt-β-catenin signaling. In Wif1(lacZ/lacZ) mutant mice and cultured urorectum with exogenous Wif1, cloaca septation was defective with undescended urs and hypospadias-like phenotypes, and such septation defects were also observed in Shh(-/-) mutants and in endodermal β-catenin gain-of-function (GOF) mutants. In addition, Wif1 and Shh were expressed in a complementary manner in the cloaca endoderm, and Wif1 was ectopically expressed in the urs and cm associated with excessive endodermal apoptosis and septation defects in Shh(-/-) mutants. Furthermore, apoptotic cells were markedly reduced in the endodermal β-catenin GOF mutant embryos, which counteracted the inhibitory effects of Wif1. Taken altogether, these data suggest that regulated expression of Wif1 is critical for the growth of the urs during cloaca septation. Hence, Wif1 governs cell apoptosis of urs endoderm by repressing β-catenin signal, which may facilitate the protrusion of the underlying proliferating mesenchymal cells towards the cm for cloaca septation. Dysregulation of this endodermal Shh-Wif1-β-catenin signaling axis contributes to ARM pathogenesis.Activation of the melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) by α-melanocortin (α-MSH) stimulates eumelanin synthesis and enhances repair of ultraviolet radiation (UV)-induced DNA damage. We report on the DNA damage response (DDR) of human melanocytes to UV and its enhancement by α-MSH. α-MSH up-regulated the levels of XPC, the enzyme that recognizes DNA damage sites, enhanced the UV-induced phosphorylation of the DNA damage sensors ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) and ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and their respect-ive substrates checkpoint kinases 1 and 2, and increased phosphorylated H2AX (γH2AX) formation. These effects required functional MC1R and were absent in melanocytes expressing loss of function (LOF) MC1R. The levels of wild-type p53-induced phosphatase 1 (Wip1), which dephosphorylates γH2AX, correlated inversely with γH2AX. We propose that α-MSH increases UV-induced γH2AX to facilitate formation of DNA repair complexes and repair of DNA photoproducts, and LOF of MC1R compromises the DDR and genomic stability of melanocytes.Estimates from large scale genome sequencing studies indicate that each human carries up to 20 genetic variants that are predicted to results in loss of function (LOF) of protein-coding genes. While some are known disease-causing variants or common, tolerated, LOFs in non-essential genes, the majority remain of unknown consequence. We explore the possibility of using imputed GWAS data from large biorepositories such as the electronic medical record and genomics (eMERGE) consortium to determine the effects of rare LOFs. Here, we show that two hypocholesterolemia-associated LOF mutations in the PCSK9 gene can be accurately imputed into large-scale GWAS datasets which raises the possibility of assessing LOFs through genomics-linked medical records.Platelet-derived growth factors (PDGFs) are important mitogens for various types of mesenchymal cells, and as such, they exert critical functions during organogenesis in mammalian embryonic and early postnatal development. Increased or ectopic PDGF activity may also cause or contribute to diseases such as cancer and tissue fibrosis. Until recently, no loss-of-function (LOF) mutations in PDGF or PDGF receptor genes were reported as causally linked to a human disease. This changed in 2013 when reports appeared on presumed LOF mutations in the genes encoding PDGF-B and its receptor PDGF receptor-beta (PDGF-Rβ) in familial idiopathic basal ganglia calcification (IBGC), a brain disease characterized by anatomically localized calcifications in or near the blood microvessels. Here, we review PDGF-B and PDGF-Rβ biology with special reference to their functions in brain-blood vessel development, pericyte recruitment and the regulation of the blood-brain barrier. We also discuss various scenarios for IBGC pathogenesis suggested by observations in patients and genetically engineered animal models of the disease.The TP53 tumor-suppressor gene is frequently mutated in human cancer. Missense mutations can add novel functions (gain-of-function, GOF) that promote tumor malignancy. Here we report that mutant (mut) p53 promotes tumor malignancy by suppressing the expression of a natural occurring anti-inflammatory cytokine, the secreted interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (sIL-1Ra, IL1RN). We show that mutp53 but not wild-type (wt) p53 suppresses the sIL-1Ra production in conditioned media of cancer cells. Moreover, mutp53, but not wtp53, binds physically the sIL-1Ra promoter and the protein-protein interaction with the transcriptional co-repressor MAFF (v-MAF musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma oncogene family, protein F) is required for mutp53-induced sIL-1Ra suppression. Remarkably, when exposed to IL-1 beta (IL-1β) inflammatory stimuli, mutp53 sustains a ready-to-be-activated in vitro and in vivo cancer cells' response through the sIL-1Ra repression. Taken together, these results identify sIL-1Ra as a novel mutp53 target gene, whose suppression might be required to generate a chronic pro-inflammatory tumor microenvironment through which mutp53 promotes tumor malignancy.Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG) is a master transcriptional regulator of adipocyte differentiation and a canonical target of antidiabetic thiazolidinedione medications. In rare families, loss-of-function (LOF) mutations in PPARG are known to cosegregate with lipodystrophy and insulin resistance; in the general population, the common P12A variant is associated with a decreased risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Whether and how rare variants in PPARG and defects in adipocyte differentiation influence risk of T2D in the general population remains undetermined. By sequencing PPARG in 19,752 T2D cases and controls drawn from multiple studies and ethnic groups, we identified 49 previously unidentified, nonsynonymous PPARG variants (MAF < 0.5%). Considered in aggregate (with or without computational prediction of functional consequence), these rare variants showed no association with T2D (OR = 1.35; P = 0.17). The function of the 49 variants was experimentally tested in a novel high-throughput human adipocyte differentiation assay, and nine were found to have reduced activity in the assay. Carrying any of these nine LOF variants was associated with a substantial increase in risk of T2D (OR = 7.22; P = 0.005). The combination of large-scale DNA sequencing and functional testing in the laboratory reveals that approximately 1 in 1,000 individuals carries a variant in PPARG that reduces function in a human adipocyte differentiation assay and is associated with a substantial risk of T2D.BACKGROUND: Neural tube defects (NTDs) are very common and severe birth defects that are caused by failure of neural tube closure and that have a complex aetiology. Anencephaly and spina bifida are severe NTDs that affect reproductive fitness and suggest a role for de novo mutations (DNMs) in their aetiology.
METHODS: We used whole-exome sequencing in 43 sporadic cases affected with myelomeningocele or anencephaly and their unaffected parents to identify DNMs in their exomes.
RESULTS: We identified 42 coding DNMs in 25 cases, of which 6 were loss of function (LoF) showing a higher rate of LoF DNM in our cohort compared with control cohorts. Notably, we identified two protein-truncating DNMs in two independent cases in SHROOM3, previously associated with NTDs only in animal models. We have demonstrated a significant enrichment of LoF DNMs in this gene in NTDs compared with the gene specific DNM rate and to the DNM rate estimated from control cohorts. We also identified one nonsense DNM in PAX3 and two potentially causative missense DNMs in GRHL3 and PTPRS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates an important role of LoF DNMs in the development of NTDs and strongly implicates SHROOM3 in its aetiology.A typical human exome harbors dozens of loss-of-function (LOF) variants, which can lower disease risk factor levels and affect drug efficacy. We hypothesized that LOF variants are enriched in genes influencing risk factor levels and the onset of common chronic diseases, such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes. To test this hypothesis, we sequenced the exomes of 8,554 individuals and analyzed the effects of predicted LOF variants on 20 chronic disease risk factor phenotypes. Analysis of this sample as discovery and replication strata of equal size verified two relationships in well-studied genes (PCSK9 and APOC3) and identified eight new loci. Previously unknown relationships included elevated fasting glucose in carriers of heterozygous LOF variation in TXNDC5, which encodes a biomarker for type 1 diabetes progression, and apparent recessive effects of C1QTNF8 on serum magnesium levels. These data demonstrate the utility of functional-variant annotation within a large sample of deeply phenotyped individuals for gene discovery.The main tumor suppressor function of p53 as a "guardian of the genome" is to respond to cellular stress by transcriptional activation of apoptosis, growth arrest, or senescence in damaged cells. Not surprisingly, mutations in the p53 gene are the most frequent genetic alteration in human cancers. Importantly, mutant p53 (mutp53) proteins not only lose their wild-type tumor suppressor activity but also can actively promote tumor development. Two main mechanisms accounting for mutp53 proto-oncogenic activity are inhibition of the wild-type p53 in a dominant-negative fashion and gain of additional oncogenic activities known as gain-of-function (GOF). Here, we discuss a novel mechanism of mutp53 GOF, which relies on its oncogenic cooperation with the heat shock machinery. This coordinated adaptive mechanism renders cancer cells more resistant to proteotoxic stress and provides both, a strong survival advantage to cancer cells and a promising means for therapeutic intervention.Melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R), a Gs protein-coupled receptor of the melanocyte's plasma membrane, is a major determinant of skin pigmentation and phototype. Upon activation by α-melanocyte stimulating hormone, MC1R triggers the cAMP cascade to stimulate eumelanogenesis. We used whole-exome sequencing to identify causative alleles in Pakistani families with skin and hair hypopigmentation. Six MC1R mutations segregated with the phenotype in seven families, including a p.Val174del in-frame deletion and a p.Tyr298* nonsense mutation, that were analyzed for function in heterologous HEK293 cells. p.Tyr298* MC1R showed no agonist-induced signaling to the cAMP or ERK pathways, nor detectable agonist binding. Conversely, signaling was comparable for p.Val174del and wild-type in HEK cells overexpressing the proteins, but binding analysis suggested impaired cell surface expression. Flow cytometry and confocal imaging studies revealed reduced plasma membrane expression of p.Val174del and p.Tyr298*. Therefore, p.Tyr298* was a total loss-of-function (LOF) allele, while p.Val174del displayed a partial LOF attribute.TP53 (which encodes p53 protein) is the most frequently mutated gene among all human cancers. Prevalent p53 missense mutations abrogate its tumour suppressive function and lead to a 'gain-of-function' (GOF) that promotes cancer. Here we show that p53 GOF mutants bind to and upregulate chromatin regulatory genes, including the methyltransferases MLL1 (also known as KMT2A), MLL2 (also known as KMT2D), and acetyltransferase MOZ (also known as KAT6A or MYST3), resulting in genome-wide increases of histone methylation and acetylation. Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas shows specific upregulation of MLL1, MLL2, and MOZ in p53 GOF patient-derived tumours, but not in wild-type p53 or p53 null tumours. Cancer cell proliferation is markedly lowered by genetic knockdown of MLL1 or by pharmacological inhibition of the MLL1 methyltransferase complex. Our study reveals a novel chromatin mechanism underlying the progression of tumours with GOF p53, and suggests new possibilities for designing combinatorial chromatin-based therapies for treating individual cancers driven by prevalent GOF p53 mutations.Mutation in the TP53 gene positively correlates with increased incidence of chemoresistance in different cancers. In this study, we investigated the mechanism of chemoresistance and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in colorectal cancer involving the gain-of-function (GOF) mutant p53/ephrin-B2 signaling axis. Bioinformatic analysis of the NCI-60 data set and subsequent hub prediction identified EFNB2 as a possible GOF mutant p53 target gene, responsible for chemoresistance. We show that the mutant p53-NF-Y complex transcriptionally upregulates EFNB2 expression in response to DNA damage. Moreover, the acetylated form of mutant p53 protein is recruited on the EFNB2 promoter and positively regulates its expression in conjunction with coactivator p300. In vitro cell line and in vivo nude mice data show that EFNB2 silencing restores chemosensitivity in mutant p53-harboring tumors. In addition, we observed high expression of EFNB2 in patients having neoadjuvant non-responder colorectal carcinoma compared with those having responder version of the disease. In the course of deciphering the drug resistance mechanism, we also show that ephrin-B2 reverse signaling induces ABCG2 expression after drug treatment that involves JNK-c-Jun signaling in mutant p53 cells. Moreover, 5-fluorouracil-induced ephrin-B2 reverse signaling promotes tumorigenesis through the Src-ERK pathway, and drives EMT via the Src-FAK pathway. We thus conclude that targeting ephrin-B2 might enhance the therapeutic potential of DNA-damaging chemotherapeutic agents in mutant p53-bearing human tumors.Cell Death and Differentiation advance online publication, 23 October 2015; doi:10.1038/cdd.2015.133.Proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is a critical modulator of cholesterol homeostasis. Whereas PCSK9 gain-of-function (GOF) mutations are associated with autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia (ADH) and premature atherosclerosis, PCSK9 loss-of-function (LOF) mutations have a cardio-protective effect and in some cases can lead to familial hypobetalipoproteinemia (FHBL). However, limitations of the currently available cellular models preclude deciphering the consequences of PCSK9 mutation further. We aimed to validate urine-sample-derived human induced pluripotent stem cells (UhiPSCs) as an appropriate tool to model PCSK9-mediated ADH and FHBL. To achieve our goal, urine-sample-derived somatic cells were reprogrammed into hiPSCs by using episomal vectors. UhiPSC were efficiently differentiated into hepatocyte-like cells (HLCs). Compared to control cells, cells originally derived from an individual with ADH (HLC-S127R) secreted less PCSK9 in the media (-38.5%; P=0.038) and had a 71% decrease (P<0.001) of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) uptake, whereas cells originally derived from an individual with FHBL (HLC-R104C/V114A) displayed a strong decrease in PCSK9 secretion (-89.7%; P<0.001) and had a 106% increase (P=0.0104) of LDL uptake. Pravastatin treatment significantly enhanced LDL receptor (LDLR) and PCSK9 mRNA gene expression, as well as PCSK9 secretion and LDL uptake in both control and S127R HLCs. Pravastatin treatment of multiple clones led to an average increase of LDL uptake of 2.19±0.77-fold in HLC-S127R compared to 1.38±0.49 fold in control HLCs (P<0.01), in line with the good response to statin treatment of individuals carrying the S127R mutation (mean LDL cholesterol reduction=60.4%, n=5). In conclusion, urine samples provide an attractive and convenient source of somatic cells for reprogramming and hepatocyte differentiation, but also a powerful tool to further decipher PCSK9 mutations and function.MLK4 is a member of the mixed-lineage family of kinases that regulate the JNK, p38, and ERK kinase signaling pathways. MLK4 mutations have been identified in various human cancers, including frequently in colorectal cancer, where their function and pathobiological importance have been uncertain. In this study, we assessed the functional consequences of MLK4 mutations in colon tumorigenesis. Biochemical data indicated that a majority of MLK4 mutations are loss-of-function (LOF) mutations that can exert dominant-negative effects. In seeking to understand the abrogated activity of these mutants, we elucidated a new MLK4 catalytic domain structure. To determine whether MLK4 is required to maintain tumorigenic phenotypes, we reconstituted its signaling axis in colon cancer cells harboring MLK4-inactivating mutations. We found that restoring MLK4 activity reduced cell viability, proliferation, and colony formation in vitro and delayed tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistic investigations established that restoring the function of MLK4 selectively induced the JNK pathway and its downstream targets, cJUN, ATF3, and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors CDKN1A and CDKN2B. Our work indicates that MLK4 is a novel tumor-suppressing kinase harboring frequent LOF mutations that lead to diminished signaling in the JNK pathway and enhanced proliferation in colon cancer. Cancer Res; 76(3); 1-12. ©2015 AACR.Mutation in TP53 is a common genetic alteration in human cancers. Certain tumor associated p53 missense mutants acquire gain-of-function (GOF) properties and confer oncogenic phenotypes including enhanced chemoresistance. The colorectal cancers (CRC) harboring mutant p53 are generally aggressive in nature and difficult to treat. To identify a potential gene expression signature of GOF mutant p53-driven acquired chemoresistance in CRC, we performed transcriptome profiling of floxuridine (FUdR) treated SW480 cells expressing mutant p53(R273H) (GEO#: GSE77533). We obtained several genes differentially regulated between FUdR treated and untreated cells. Further, functional characterization and pathway analysis revealed significant enrichment of crucial biological processes and pathways upon FUdR treatment in SW480 cells. Our data suggest that in response to chemotherapeutics treatment, cancer cells with GOF mutant p53 can modulate key cellular pathways to withstand the cytotoxic effect of the drugs. The genes and pathways identified in the present study can be further validated and targeted for better chemotherapy response in colorectal cancer patients harboring mutant p53.Exome sequencing studies have identified multiple genes harboring de novo loss-of-function (LoF) variants in individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD), including TBR1, a master regulator of cortical development. We performed ChIP-seq for TBR1 during mouse cortical neurogenesis and show that TBR1-bound regions are enriched adjacent to ASD genes. ASD genes were also enriched among genes that are differentially expressed in Tbr1 knockouts, which together with the ChIP-seq data, suggests direct transcriptional regulation. Of the nine ASD genes examined, seven were misexpressed in the cortices of Tbr1 knockout mice, including six with increased expression in the deep cortical layers. ASD genes with adjacent cortical TBR1 ChIP-seq peaks also showed unusually low levels of LoF mutations in a reference human population and among Icelanders. We then leveraged TBR1 binding to identify an appealing subset of candidate ASD genes. Our findings highlight a TBR1-regulated network of ASD genes in the developing neocortex that are relatively intolerant to LoF mutations, indicating that these genes may play critical roles in normal cortical development.The p53 tumor suppressor gene encodes a sequence-specific transcription factor. Mutations in the coding sequence of p53 occur frequently in human cancer and often result in single amino acid substitutions (missense mutations) in the DNA binding domain (DBD), blocking normal tumor suppressive functions. In addition to the loss of canonical functions, some missense mutations in p53 confer gain-of-function (GOF) activities to tumor cells. While many missense mutations in p53 cluster at six "hotspot" amino acids, the majority of mutations in human cancer occur elsewhere in the DBD and at a much lower frequency. We report here that mutations at K120, a non-hotspot DNA contact residue, confer p53 with the previously unrecognized ability to bind and activate the transcription of the pro-survival TNFAIP8 gene. Mutant K120 p53 binds the TNFAIP8 locus at a cryptic p53 response element that is not occupied by wild-type p53. Furthermore, induction of TNFAIP8 is critical for the evasion of apoptosis by tumor cells expressing the K120R variant of p53. These findings identify induction of pro-survival targets as a mechanism of gain-of-function activity for mutant p53 and will likely broaden our understanding of this phenomenon beyond the limited number of GOF activities currently reported for hotspot mutants.The overall understanding of the molecular etiologies of intellectual disability (ID) and developmental delay (DD) is increasing as next-generation sequencing technologies identify genetic variants in individuals with such disorders. However, detailed analyses conclusively confirming these variants, as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms explaining the diseases, are often lacking. Here, we report on an ID syndrome caused by de novo heterozygous loss-of-function (LoF) mutations in SON. The syndrome is characterized by ID and/or DD, malformations of the cerebral cortex, epilepsy, vision problems, musculoskeletal abnormalities, and congenital malformations. Knockdown of son in zebrafish resulted in severe malformation of the spine, brain, and eyes. Importantly, analyses of RNA from affected individuals revealed that genes critical for neuronal migration and cortex organization (TUBG1, FLNA, PNKP, WDR62, PSMD3, and HDAC6) and metabolism (PCK2, PFKL, IDH2, ACY1, and ADA) are significantly downregulated because of the accumulation of mis-spliced transcripts resulting from erroneous SON-mediated RNA splicing. Our data highlight SON as a master regulator governing neurodevelopment and demonstrate the importance of SON-mediated RNA splicing in human development.OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of (1) an oral fat load and (2) pro-protein convertase subtilisin/kexin type (PCSK) 9 loss-of-function (LOF) variant status on the ability of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) to inhibit human adipogenesis.
METHODS: PBMC from subjects with one or more PCSK9 LOF variants versus non-variant controls were compared in the fasting state and after an oral fat load.
RESULTS: Fasting triglyceride (TG) levels were lower in the LOF variant versus non-variant group but rose to the same level after the oral fat load. Conditioned medium from PBMC was obtained in fasting (PBMC-CM-F) and 4-h postprandial (PBMC-CM-PP) states. PBMC-CM-PP from non-variant controls inhibited adipogenesis of human preadipocytes more than did PBMC-CM-F. In contrast, PBMC-CM-F or -PP from PCSK9 LOF variant subjects had no effect on adipogenesis. After the oral fat load, PBMC from PCSK9 LOF variant subjects showed significant increases in mRNA levels of interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c, CD36, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), only MCP-1 mRNA levels increased in PBMC from non-variant controls.
CONCLUSIONS: The absence of anti-adipogenic action of PBMC from PCSK9 LOF variant subjects points to a novel role for PCSK9 in PBMC-adipose cell interactions.Human skin has evolved rapidly, leaving evolutionary signatures in the genome. The filaggrin (FLG) gene is widely studied for its skin-barrier function in humans. The extensive genetic variation in this gene, especially common loss-of-function (LoF) mutations, has been established as primary risk factors for atopic dermatitis. To investigate the evolution of this gene, we analyzed 2,504 human genomes and genotyped the copy number variation of filaggrin repeats within FLG in 126 individuals from diverse ancestral backgrounds. We were unable to replicate a recent study claiming that LoF of FLG is adaptive in northern latitudes with lower ultraviolet light exposure. Instead, we present multiple lines of evidence suggesting that FLG genetic variation, including LoF variants, have little or no effect on fitness in modern humans. Haplotype-level scrutinization of the locus revealed signatures of a recent selective sweep in Asia, which increased the allele frequency of a haplotype group (Huxian haplogroup) in Asian populations. Functionally, we found that the Huxian haplogroup carries dozens of functional variants in FLG and hornerin (HRNR) genes, including those that are associated with atopic dermatitis susceptibility, HRNR expression levels and microbiome diversity on the skin. Our results suggest that the target of the adaptive sweep is HRNR gene function, and the functional FLG variants that involve susceptibility to atopic dermatitis, seem to hitchhike the selective sweep on HRNR. Our study presents a novel case of a locus that harbors clinically relevant common genetic variation with complex evolutionary trajectories.Aortic dissection (AD) is a devastating, heterogeneous condition of aorta. The homeostasis between collagens and matrix metalloproteases (MMPs)/tissue inhibitors of MMPs (TIMPs) system in the extracellular matrix plays an important role for structure and functions of aorta. However, our knowledge on association between variants of genes in this system and pathogenesis of AD is very limited. We analyzed all yet known coding human genes of collagens (45 genes), MMPs/TIMPs (27 genes) in 702 sporadic AD patients and in 163 matched healthy controls, by using massively targeted next-generation and Sanger sequencing. To define the pathogenesis of potential disease-causing candidate genes, we performed transcriptome sequencing and pedigree co-segregation analysis in some genes and generated Col5a2 knockout rats. We identified 257 pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants which involved 88.89% (64/72) genes in collagens-MMPs/TIMPs system and accounted for 31.05% (218/702) sporadic AD patients. In them, 84.86% patients (185/218) carried one variant, 12.84% two variants and 2.30% more than two variants. Importantly, we identified 52 novel probably pathogenic loss-of-function (LOF) variants (20 nonsense, 16 frameshift, 14 splice sites, one stop-loss, one initiation codon) in 11.06% (50/452) AD patients, which were absent in 163 controls (P=2.5×10(-5)). Transcriptome sequencing revealed that identified variants induced dyshomeostasis in expression of collagens-TIMPs/MMPs systems. The Col5a2 (-/-) rats manifested growth retardation and aortic dysplasia. Our study provides a first comprehensive map of genetic alterations in collagens-MMPs/TIMPs system in sporadic AD patients and suggests that variants of these genes contribute largely to AD pathogenesis.BACKGROUND: Germline heterozygous mutations in human signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) can cause loss of function (LOF), as in patients with Mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases, or gain of function (GOF), as in patients with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis. LOF and GOF mutations are equally rare and can affect the same domains of STAT1, especially the coiled-coil domain (CCD) and DNA-binding domain (DBD). Moreover, 6% of patients with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis with a GOF STAT1 mutation have mycobacterial disease, obscuring the functional significance of the identified STAT1 mutations. Current computational approaches, such as combined annotation-dependent depletion, do not distinguish LOF and GOF variants.
OBJECTIVE: We estimated variations in the CCD/DBD of STAT1.
METHODS: We mutagenized 342 individual wild-type amino acids in the CCD/DBD (45.6% of full-length STAT1) to alanine and tested the mutants for STAT1 transcriptional activity.
RESULTS: Of these 342 mutants, 201 were neutral, 30 were LOF, and 111 were GOF mutations in a luciferase assay. This assay system correctly estimated all previously reported LOF mutations (100%) and slightly fewer GOF mutations (78.1%) in the CCD/DBD of STAT1. We found that GOF alanine mutants occurred at the interface of the antiparallel STAT1 dimer, suggesting that they destabilize this dimer. This assay also precisely predicted the effect of 2 hypomorphic and dominant negative mutations, E157K and G250E, in the CCD of STAT1 that we found in 2 unrelated patients with Mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases.
CONCLUSION: The systematic alanine-scanning assay is a useful tool to estimate the GOF or LOF status and the effect of heterozygous missense mutations in STAT1 identified in patients with severe infectious diseases, including mycobacterial and fungal diseases.BACKGROUND: Gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in the human signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) manifest in immunodeficiency and autoimmunity with impaired TH17 cell differentiation and exaggerated responsiveness to type I and II interferons. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation has been attempted in severely affected patients, but outcomes have been poor.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to define the effect of increased STAT1 activity on T helper cell polarization and to investigate the therapeutic potential of ruxolitinib in treating autoimmunity secondary to STAT1 GOF mutations.
METHODS: We used in vitro polarization assays, as well as phenotypic and functional analysis of STAT1-mutated patient cells.
RESULTS: We report a child with a novel mutation in the linker domain of STAT1 who had life-threatening autoimmune cytopenias and chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis. Naive lymphocytes from the affected patient displayed increased TH1 and follicular T helper cell and suppressed TH17 cell responses. The mutation augmented cytokine-induced STAT1 phosphorylation without affecting dephosphorylation kinetics. Treatment with the Janus kinase 1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib reduced hyperresponsiveness to type I and II interferons, normalized TH1 and follicular T helper cell responses, improved TH17 differentiation, cured mucocutaneous candidiasis, and maintained remission of immune-mediated cytopenias.
CONCLUSIONS: Autoimmunity and infection caused by STAT1 GOF mutations are the result of dysregulated T helper cell responses. Janus kinase inhibitor therapy could represent an effective targeted treatment for long-term disease control in severely affected patients for whom hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is not available.PURPOSE OF REVIEW: There are many reports of human variants in proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9 (PCSK9) that are either gain-of-function (GOF) or loss-of-function (LOF), with downstream effects on LDL cholesterol and cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. However, data on particular mechanisms have only been minimally curated.
RECENT FINDINGS: GOF variants are individually ultrarare, affect all domains of the protein, act to reduce LDL receptor expression through several mechanisms, are a minor cause of familial hypercholesterolemia, have been reported mainly within families, have variable LDL cholesterol-raising effects, and are associated with increased CVD risk mainly through observational studies in families and small cohorts. In contrast, LOF variants can be either ultrarare mutations or relatively more common polymorphisms seen in populations, affect all domains of the protein, act to increase LDL receptor expression through several mechanisms, have variable LDL cholesterol-lowering effects, and have been associated with decreased CVD risk mainly through Mendelian randomization studies in epidemiologic populations.
SUMMARY: There is considerable complexity underlying the clinical concept of both LOF and GOF variants of PCSK9. But despite the underlying mechanistic heterogeneity, altered PCSK9 secretion or function is ultimately correlated with plasma LDL cholesterol level, which is also the driver of CVD outcomes.The research domain criteria (RDoC) matrix has been developed to reorient psychiatric research towards measurable behavioral dimensions and underlying mechanisms. Here, we used a new genetic rat model with a loss-of-function point mutation in the dopamine transporter (DAT) gene (Slc6a3_N157K) to systematically study the RDoC matrix. First, we examined the impact of the Slc6a3_N157K mutation on monoaminergic signaling. We then performed behavioral tests representing each of the five RDoC domains: negative and positive valence systems, cognitive, social and arousal/regulatory systems. The use of RDoC may be particularly helpful for drug development. We studied the effects of a novel pharmacological approach metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR2/3 antagonism, in DAT mutants in a comparative way with standard medications. Loss of DAT functionality in mutant rats not only elevated subcortical extracellular dopamine concentration but also altered the balance of monoaminergic transmission. DAT mutant rats showed deficits in all five RDoC domains. Thus, mutant rats failed to show conditioned fear responses, were anhedonic, were unable to learn stimulus-reward associations, showed impaired cognition and social behavior, and were hyperactive. Hyperactivity in mutant rats was reduced by amphetamine and atomoxetine, which are well-established medications to reduce hyperactivity in humans. The mGluR2/3 antagonist LY341495 also normalized hyperactivity in DAT mutant rats without affecting extracellular dopamine levels. We systematically characterized an altered dopamine system within the context of the RDoC matrix and studied mGluR2/3 antagonism as a new pharmacological strategy to treat mental disorders with underlying subcortical dopaminergic hyperactivity.Activated PI3K Delta Syndrome (APDS) is a primary immunodeficiency disease caused by activating mutations in either the leukocyte-restricted p110δ catalytic (PIK3CD) subunit or the ubiquitously expressed p85α regulatory (PIK3R1) subunit of class IA phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks). There are two classes of APDS: APDS1 that arises from p110δ mutations that are analogous to oncogenic mutations found in the broadly expressed p110α subunit and APDS2 that occurs from a splice mutation resulting in p85α with a central deletion (Δ434-475). As p85 regulatory subunits associate with and inhibit all class IA catalytic subunits, APDS2 mutations are expected to similarly activate p110α, β, and δ, yet APDS2 largely phenocopies APDS1 without dramatic effects outside the immune system. We have examined the molecular mechanism of activation of both classes of APDS mutations using a combination of biochemical assays and hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry. Intriguingly, we find that an APDS2 mutation in p85α leads to substantial basal activation of p110δ (>300-fold) and disrupts inhibitory interactions from the nSH2, iSH2, and cSH2 domains of p85, whereas p110α is only minimally basally activated (∼2-fold) when associated with mutated p85α. APDS1 mutations in p110δ (N334K, E525K, E1021K) mimic the activation mechanisms previously discovered for oncogenic mutations in p110α. All APDS mutations were potently inhibited by the Food and Drug Administration-approved p110δ inhibitor idelalisib. Our results define the molecular basis of how PIK3CD and PIK3R1 mutations result in APDS and reveal a potential path to treatment for all APDS patients.N-cadherin inhibits osteogenic cell differentiation and canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling in vitro. However, in vivo both conditional Cdh2 ablation and overexpression in osteoblasts lead to low bone mass. We tested the hypothesis that N-cadherin has different effects on osteolineage cells depending upon their differentiation stage. Embryonic conditional osteolineage Cdh2 deletion in mice results in defective growth, low bone mass, and reduced osteoprogenitor number. These abnormalities are prevented by delaying Cdh2 ablation until 1 month of age, thus targeting only committed and mature osteoblasts, suggesting they are the consequence of N-cadherin deficiency in osteoprogenitors. Indeed, diaphyseal trabecularization actually increases when Cdh2 is ablated postnatally. The sclerostin-insensitive Lrp5(A214V) mutant, associated with high bone mass, does not rescue the growth defect, but it overrides the low bone mass of embryonically Cdh2-deleted mice, suggesting N-cadherin interacts with Wnt signaling to control bone mass. Finally, bone accrual and β-catenin accumulation after administration of an anti-Dkk1 antibody are enhanced in N-cadherin-deficient mice. Thus, although lack of N-cadherin in embryonic and perinatal age is detrimental to bone growth and bone accrual, in adult mice loss of N-cadherin in osteolineage cells favors bone formation. Hence, N-cadherin inhibition may widen the therapeutic window of osteoanabolic agents. © 2017 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.KIT, PDGFRA, NF1 and SDH mutations are alternate initiating events, fostering hyperplasia in gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs), and additional genetic alterations are required for progression to malignancy. The most frequent secondary alteration, demonstrated in ∼70% of GISTs, is chromosome 14q deletion. Here we report hemizygous or homozygous inactivating mutations of the chromosome 14q MAX gene in 16 of 76 GISTs (21%). We find MAX mutations in 17% and 50% of sporadic and NF1-syndromic GISTs, respectively, and we find loss of MAX protein expression in 48% and 90% of sporadic and NF1-syndromic GISTs, respectively, and in three of eight micro-GISTs, which are early GISTs. MAX genomic inactivation is associated with p16 silencing in the absence of p16 coding sequence deletion and MAX induction restores p16 expression and inhibits GIST proliferation. Hence, MAX inactivation is a common event in GIST progression, fostering cell cycle activity in early GISTs.Melanomas accumulate a high burden of mutations that could potentially generate neoantigens, yet somehow suppress the immune response to facilitate continued growth. In this study, we identify a subset of human melanomas that have loss-of-function mutations in ATR, a kinase that recognizes and repairs UV-induced DNA damage and is required for cellular proliferation. ATR mutant tumors exhibit both the accumulation of multiple mutations and the altered expression of inflammatory genes, resulting in decreased T cell recruitment and increased recruitment of macrophages known to spur tumor invasion. Taken together, these studies identify a mechanism by which melanoma cells modulate the immune microenvironment to promote continued growth.Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a member of the neurotrophin growth factors family. Recent studies indicated that the level of BDNF in follicular fluid is a marker for oocyte quality and infertility. Here, we intend to further investigate the function of BDNF and its signaling pathway in the regulation of endometrial cells proliferation. We found that BDNF is a critical growth factor in endometrial cells. Activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 signaling pathway is required for BNDF-regulated endometrial cell proliferation. Furthermore, BDNF is an effector of estrogen in endometrial cells. Finally, we investigated the different role of Val66Met, a single-nucleotide polymorphism of the BDNF gene, in regulating endometrial cells proliferation. The results showed that BDNF(V66M) polymorphism is a loss-of-function polymorphism in the regulation of endometrial cells growth. Given the correlation between endometriosis and infertility, it is important to understand the role of BDNF in regulating endometrial cells proliferation and to develop new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of endometriosis-related infertility.LRP5 loss-of-function mutations have been shown to cause profound osteoporosis and have been associated with impaired insulin sensitivity and dysregulated lipid metabolism. We hypothesized that gain-of-function mutations in LRP5 would also affect these parameters. We therefore studied individuals with LRP5 gain-of-function mutations exhibiting high bone mass (HBM) phenotypes and found that while there was no detected change in insulin sensitivity, there was a significant reduction in serum LDL.
INTRODUCTION: Wnt signaling through LRP5 represents a newly appreciated metabolic pathway, which potentially represents a target for drug discovery in type 2 diabetes and hyperlipidemia. Studies in animal models suggest a physiologic link between LRP5 and glucose and lipid homeostasis; however, whether it plays a similar role in humans is unclear. As current literature links loss-of-function LRP5 to impaired glucose and lipid metabolism, we hypothesized that individuals with an HBM-causing mutation in LRP5 would exhibit improved glucose and lipid homeostasis. Since studies in animal models have suggested that Wnt signaling augments insulin secretion, we also examined the effect of Wnt signaling on glucose-stimulated insulin secretion on human pancreatic islets.
METHODS: This was a matched case-control study. We used several methods to assess glucose and lipid metabolism in 11 individuals with HBM-causing mutations in LRP5. Affected study participants were recruited from previously identified kindreds with HBM-causing LRP5 mutations and included 9 males and 2 females. Two subjects that were being treated with insulin for type 2 diabetes were excluded from our analysis, as this would have obscured our ability to determine the impact of gain-of-function LRP5 mutations on glucose metabolism. The mean age of the evaluated study subjects was 55 ± 7 with a mean BMI of 27.2 ± 2.0. Control subjects were matched and recruited from the general community at an equivalent ratio, with 18 males and 4 females (mean age 56 ± 4; mean BMI 27.2 ± 1.0). Study testing was conducted at an academic medical center.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences between affected and matched control populations for HbA1c (p = 0.06), eAG (p = 0.06), insulin (p = 0.82), HOMA-B (p = 0.34), or HOMA-IR (p = 0.66). The mean Insulin Sensitivity Index (ISI) was also similar between control and affected individuals. Total cholesterol (p = 0.43), triglycerides (TG) (p = 0.56), and HDL (p = 0.32) were not different between the same two groups. In a small subset of studied subjects, intramyocellular and hepatic lipid content were similar in the affected individuals and controls when quantified by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). However, the mean value for serum LDL was significantly lower (p = 0.04) in affected individuals. In primary human islets, there were no differences between control and Wnt treatment groups for insulin secretion measured as area under the curve (AUC) for first phase (p = 0.17) or second phase (p = 0.33) insulin secretion.
CONCLUSIONS: Although our sample size was small, our data do not support the hypothesis that HBM-causing LRP5 mutations, associated with increased Wnt signaling, improve glucose metabolism in humans. However, it does appear that LRP5 variants may affect LDL metabolism, a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. The molecular mechanisms underpinning this effect warrant further study.Establishment and maintenance of the polar site are important for root hair tip growth. We previously reported that Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) MICROTUBULE-ASSOCIATED PROTEIN18 (MAP18) functions in controlling the direction of pollen tube growth and root hair elongation. Additionally, the Rop GTPase ROP2 was reported as a positive regulator of both root hair initiation and tip growth in Arabidopsis. Both loss of function of ROP2 and knockdown of MAP18 lead to a decrease in root hair length, whereas overexpression of either MAP18 or ROP2 causes multiple tips or a branching hair phenotype. However, it is unclear whether MAP18 and ROP2 coordinately regulate root hair growth. In this study, we demonstrate that MAP18 and ROP2 interact genetically and functionally. MAP18 interacts physically with ROP2 in vitro and in vivo and preferentially binds to the inactive form of the ROP2 protein. MAP18 promotes ROP2 activity during root hair tip growth. Further investigation revealed that MAP18 competes with RhoGTPase GDP DISSOCIATION INHIBITOR1/SUPERCENTIPEDE1 for binding to ROP2, in turn affecting the localization of active ROP2 in the plasma membrane of the root hair tip. These results reveal a novel function of MAP18 in the regulation of ROP2 activation during root hair growth.Light is an environmental signal perceived by most eukaryotic organisms and that can have major impacts on their growth and development. The MadC protein in the fungus Phycomyces blakesleeanus (Mucoromycotina) has been postulated to form part of the photosensory input for phototropism of the fruiting body sporangiophores, but the madC gene has remained unidentified since the 1960s when madC mutants were first isolated. In this study the madC gene was identified by positional cloning. All madC mutant strains contain loss-of-function point mutations within a gene predicted to encode a GTPase activating protein (GAP) for Ras. The madC gene complements the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ras-GAP ira1 mutant and the encoded MadC protein interacts with P. blakesleeanus Ras homologs in yeast two-hybrid assays, indicating that MadC is a regulator of Ras signaling. Deletion of the homolog in the filamentous ascomycete Neurospora crassa affects the circadian clock output, yielding a pattern of asexual conidiation similar to a ras-1 mutant that is used in circadian studies in N. crassa. Thus, MadC is unlikely to be a photosensor, yet is a fundamental link in the photoresponses from blue light perceived by the conserved White Collar complex with Ras signaling in two distantly-related filamentous fungal species.The human genome encodes ~750 G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), including prokineticin receptor 2 (PROKR2) involved in the regulation of sexual maturation. Previously reported pathogenic gain-of-function mutations of GPCR genes invariably encoded aberrant receptors with excessive signal transduction activity. Although in vitro assays demonstrated that an artificially created inactive mutant of PROKR2 exerted paradoxical gain-of-function effects when co-transfected with wild-type proteins, such a phenomenon has not been observed in vivo. Here, we report a heterozygous frameshift mutation of PROKR2 identified in a 3.5-year-old girl with central precocious puberty. The mutant mRNA escaped nonsense-mediated decay and generated a GPCR lacking two transmembrane domains and the carboxyl-terminal tail. The mutant protein had no in vitro signal transduction activity; however, cells co-expressing the mutant and wild-type PROKR2 exhibited markedly exaggerated ligand-induced Ca(2+) responses. The results indicate that certain inactive PROKR2 mutants can cause early puberty by enhancing the functional property of coexisting wild-type proteins. Considering the structural similarity among GPCRs, this paradoxical gain-of-function mechanism may underlie various human disorders.All cells respond to osmotic challenges, including those imposed during normal growth and development. Mechanosensitive (MS) ion channels provide a conserved mechanism for regulating osmotic forces by conducting ions in response to increased membrane tension. We previously demonstrated that the MS ion channel MscS-Like 8 (MSL8) is required for pollen to survive multiple osmotic challenges that occur during the normal process of fertilization, and that it can inhibit pollen germination. However, it remained unclear whether these physiological functions required ion flux through a mechanically gated channel provided by MSL8. We introduced two point mutations into the predicted pore-lining domain of MSL8 that disrupted normal channel function in different ways. The Ile711Ser mutation increased the tension threshold of the MSL8 channel while leaving conductance unchanged, and the Phe720Leu mutation severely disrupted the MSL8 channel. Both of these mutations impaired the ability of MSL8 to preserve pollen viability during hydration and to maintain the integrity of the pollen tube when expressed at endogenous levels. When overexpressed in an msl8-4 null background, MSL8I711S could partially rescue loss-of-function phenotypes, while MSL8F720L could not. When overexpressed in the wild-type Ler background, MSL8I711S suppressed pollen germination, similar to wild-type MSL8. In contrast, MSL8F720L failed to suppress pollen germination and increased pollen bursting, thereby phenocopying the msl8-4 mutant. Thus, an intact MSL8 channel is required for normal pollen function during hydration and germination. These data establish MSL8 as the first plant MS channel to fulfill previously established criteria for assignment as a mechanotransducer.Melanoma is the deadliest skin cancer. RACK1 (Receptor for activated protein kinase C) protein was proposed as a biological marker of melanoma in human and domestic animal species harboring spontaneous melanomas. As a scaffold protein, RACK1 is able to coordinate the interaction of key signaling molecules implicated in both physiological cellular functions and tumorigenesis. A role for RACK1 in rewiring ERK and JNK signaling pathways in melanoma cell lines had been proposed. Here, we used a genetic approach to test this hypothesis in vivo in the mouse. We show that Rack1 knock-down in the mouse melanoma cell line B16 reduces invasiveness and induces cell differentiation. We have developed the first mouse model for RACK1 gain of function, Tyr::Rack1-HA transgenic mice, targeting RACK1 to melanocytes in vivo. RACK1 overexpression was not sufficient to initiate melanomas despite activated ERK and AKT. However, in a context of melanoma predisposition, RACK1 overexpression reduced latency and increased incidence and metastatic rate. In primary melanoma cells from Tyr::Rack1-HA, Tyr::NRas(Q61K) mice, activated JNK (c-Jun N-terminal kinase) and activated STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) acted as RACK1 oncogenic partners in tumoral progression. A sequential and coordinated activation of ERK, JNK and STAT3 with RACK1 is shown to accelerate aggressive melanoma development in vivo.Acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT)1 and DGAT2 catalyze triglyceride (TG) biosynthesis in humans. Biallelic loss-of-function mutations in human DGAT1 result in severe congenital diarrhea and protein-losing enteropathy. Additionally, pharmacologic inhibition of DGAT1 led to dose-related diarrhea in human clinical trials. Here we identify a previously unknown DGAT1 mutation in identical twins of South Asian descent. These male patients developed watery diarrhea shortly after birth, with protein-losing enteropathy and failure to thrive. Exome sequencing revealed a homozygous recessive mutation in DGAT1, c.314T>C, p.L105P. We show here that the p.L105P DGAT1 enzyme produced from the mutant allele is less abundant, resulting in partial loss of TG synthesis activity and decreased formation of lipid droplets in patient-derived primary dermal fibroblasts. Thus, in contrast with complete loss-of-function alleles of DGAT1, the p.L105P missense allele partially reduces TG synthesis activity and causes a less severe clinical phenotype. Our findings add to the growing recognition of DGAT1 deficiency as a cause of congenital diarrhea with protein-losing enteropathy and indicate that DGAT1 mutations result in a spectrum of diseases.Congenital hydrocephalus is considered as either acquired due to haemorrhage, infection or neoplasia or as of developmental nature and is divided into two subgroups, communicating and obstructive. Congenital hydrocephalus is either syndromic or non-syndromic, and in the latter no cause is found in more than half of the patients. In patients with isolated hydrocephalus, L1CAM mutations represent the most common aetiology. More recently, a founder mutation has also been reported in the MPDZ gene in foetuses presenting massive hydrocephalus, but the neuropathology remains unknown. We describe here three novel homozygous null mutations in the MPDZ gene in foetuses whose post-mortem examination has revealed a homogeneous phenotype characterized by multiple ependymal malformations along the aqueduct of Sylvius, the third and fourth ventricles as well as the central canal of the medulla, consisting in multifocal rosettes with immature cell accumulation in the vicinity of ependymal lining early detached from the ventricular zone. MPDZ also named MUPP1 is an essential component of tight junctions which are expressed from early brain development in the choroid plexuses and ependyma. Alterations in the formation of tight junctions within the ependyma very likely account for the lesions observed and highlight for the first time that primary multifocal ependymal malformations of the ventricular system is genetically determined in humans. Therefore, MPDZ sequencing should be performed when neuropathological examination reveals multifocal ependymal rosette formation within the aqueduct of Sylvius, of the third and fourth ventricles and of the central canal of the medulla.Pointed (Pnt) is a transcriptional activator that functions downstream of the highly conserved Receptor Tyrosine Kinase (RTK) signaling pathway. Pnt is an ETS family transcription factor and encodes for two proteins, PntP1 and PntP2. However, while PntP1 is constitutively active, PntP2 is only active after being phosphorylated by MAPK in the RTK pathway. As mutations in pnt perturb the development of several tissues, we wanted to examine the effect and efficacy of using RNAi to target Pnt. We have expressed pnt RNAi in the eyes, oocyte, and heart cells using three different RNAi lines: Valium20, Valium10, and VDRC. Valium20 is distinct since it generates a short hairpin RNA (shRNA), while Valium10 and VDRC produce long hairpin dsRNA. We found that for each tissue examined Valium20 exhibited the strongest phenotype while the Valium10 and VDRC lines produced varying levels of severity and that the long hairpin RNA produced by the Valium10 and VDRC lines are unable to effectively knockdown pnt in embryonic tissues.CACNA1D encodes the pore-forming α1-subunit of Cav1.3, an L-type voltage-gated Ca2+-channel. Despite the recent discovery of two de novo missense gain-of-function mutations in Cav1.3 in two individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and intellectual disability CACNA1D has not been considered a prominent ASD-risk gene in large scale genetic analyses, since such studies primarly focus on likely-disruptive genetic variants. Here we report the discovery and characterization of a third de novo missense mutation in CACNA1D (V401L) in a patient with ASD and epilepsy.For the functional characterization we introduced mutation V401L into two major C-terminal long and short Cav1.3 splice variants, expressed wild-type or mutant channel complexes in tsA-201 cells and performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings.Mutation V401L, localized within the channel's activation gate, significantly enhanced current densities, shifted voltage dependence of activation and inactivation to more negative voltages and reduced channel inactivation in both Cav1.3 splice variants. Altogether these gating changes are expected to result in enhanced Ca2+-influx through the channel, thus representing a strong gain-of-function phenotype. Additionally, we also found that mutant channels retained full sensitivity towards the clinically available Ca2+ -channel blocker isradipine.Our findings strengthen the evidence for CACNA1D as a novel candidate autism risk gene and encourage experimental therapy with available channel-blockers for this mutation. The additional presence of seizures and neurological abnormalities in our patient define a novel phenotype partially overlapping with symptoms in two individuals with PASNA (congential primary aldosteronism, seizures and neurological abnormalities) caused by similar Cav1.3 gain-of-function mutations.BACKGROUND: Atopic eczema (AE) is characterized by skin barrier and immune dysfunction. Null mutations in filaggrin (FLG), a key epidermal barrier protein, strongly predispose to AE; however, the precise role of FLG deficiency in AE pathogenesis remains incompletely understood.
OBJECTIVES: We sought to identify global proteomic changes downstream of FLG deficiency in human epidermal living skin-equivalent (LSE) models and validate findings in skin of patients with AE.
METHODS: Differentially expressed proteins from paired control (nontargeting control short hairpin RNA [shNT]) and FLG knockdown (FLG knockdown short hairpin RNA [shFLG]) LSEs were identified by means of proteomic analysis (liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry) and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Expression of key targets was validated in independent LSE samples (quantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting) and in normal and AE skin biopsy specimens (immunofluorescence).
RESULTS: Proteomic analysis identified 17 (P ≤ .05) differentially expressed proteins after FLG knockdown, including kallikrein-7 (KLK7; 2.2-fold), cyclophilin A (PPIA; 0.9-fold), and cofilin-1 (CFL1, 1.3-fold). Differential protein expression was confirmed in shNT/shFLG LSEs; however, only KLK7 was transcriptionally dysregulated. Molecular pathways overrepresented after FLG knockdown included inflammation, protease activity, cell structure, and stress. Furthermore, KLK7 (1.8-fold) and PPIA (0.65-fold) proteins were differentially expressed in lesional biopsy specimens from patients with AE relative to normal skin.
CONCLUSIONS: For the first time, we show that loss of FLG in the absence of inflammation is sufficient to alter the expression level of proteins relevant to the pathogenesis of AE. These include proteins regulating inflammatory, proteolytic, and cytoskeletal functions. We identify PPIA as a novel protein with levels that are decreased in clinically active AE skin and show that the characteristic upregulation of KLK7 expression in patients with AE occurs downstream of FLG loss. Importantly, we highlight disconnect between the epidermal proteome and transcriptome, emphasizing the utility of global proteomic studies.Sequence variations in the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) have been linked to an increased risk for neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. In the brain, TREM2 is predominantly expressed in microglia. Several disease-associated TREM2 variants result in a loss of function by reducing microglial phagocytosis, impairing lipid sensing, preventing binding of lipoproteins and affecting shielding of amyloid plaques. We here investigate the consequences of TREM2 loss of function on the microglia transcriptome. Among the differentially expressed messenger RNAs in wild-type and Trem2(-/-) microglia, gene clusters are identified which represent gene functions in chemotaxis, migration and mobility. Functional analyses confirm that loss of TREM2 impairs appropriate microglial responses to injury and signals that normally evoke chemotaxis on multiple levels. In an ex vivo organotypic brain slice assay, absence of TREM2 reduces the distance migrated by microglia. Moreover, migration towards defined chemo-attractants is reduced upon ablation of TREM2 and can be rescued by TREM2 re-expression. In vivo, microglia lacking TREM2 migrate less towards injected apoptotic neurons, and outgrowth of microglial processes towards sites of laser-induced focal CNS damage in the somatosensory cortex is slowed. The apparent lack of chemotactic stimulation upon depletion of TREM2 is consistent with a stable expression profile of genes characterizing the homoeostatic signature of microglia.PURPOSE: Cerebrospinal cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular lesions characterized by dilated and leaky capillary caverns. CCMs can cause seizures, focal neurological deficits or acute intracranial hemorrhage; however, most patients are asymptomatic. CCMs occur either sporadically or as a familial autosomal-dominant disorder. We present a clinical and molecular study of a patient with distinctive cerebral and spinal cavernous malformations following radiochemotherapy for a malignant brain tumor.
METHODS: The patient had multiple magnet resonance imaging (MRI) examinations of his brain and spine following radiochemotherapy for a primary intracranial germ cell tumor (GCT), as part of his oncologic follow-up. The MRI sequences included susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI). The coding exons and their flanking intronic regions of KRIT1/CCM1 gene were analyzed for mutations by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and direct sequencing.
RESULTS: MRI revealed numerous cerebral and spinal microhemorrhages and pronounced cavernous malformations that progressed with subsequent follow-up imaging. Genetic analysis demonstrated a novel heterozygous KRIT1/CCM1 two base pair deletion (c.1535_1536delTG) in exon 14. This deletion leads to a frameshift with a premature stop codon at nucleotide position 1553 and a highly likely loss of function of the KRIT1 protein.
CONCLUSION: We describe a patient with a novel heterozygous germ line loss of function mutation in KRIT1, which is associated with rapid-onset and highly progressive CCMs after radiochemotherapy for a malignant brain tumor.BACKGROUND: This study aimed to identify independent prognostic factors for overall survival (OS) of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring an activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation and receiving gefitinib as first-line treatment in real-world practice.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We enrolled 226 patients from June 2011 to May 2013. During this period, gefitinib was the only EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor reimbursed by the Bureau of National Health Insurance of Taiwan.
RESULTS: The median progression-free survival and median OS were 11.9 months (95% confidence interval [CI]: 9.7-14.2) and 26.9 months (21.2-32.5), respectively. The Cox proportional hazards regression model revealed that postoperative recurrence, performance status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Grade [ECOG] ≥2), smoking index (≥20 pack-years), liver metastasis at initial diagnosis, and chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection were independent prognostic factors for OS (hazard ratio [95% CI] 0.3 [0.11-0.83], p = .02; 2.69 [1.60-4.51], p < .001; 1.92 [1.24-2.97], p = .003; 2.26 [1.34-3.82], p = .002; 3.38 [1.85-7.78], p < .001, respectively). However, brain metastasis (BM) at initial diagnosis or intracranial progression during gefitinib treatment had no impact on OS (1.266 [0.83-1.93], p = .275 and 0.75 [0.48-1.19], p = .211, respectively).
CONCLUSION: HCV infection, performance status (ECOG ≥2), newly diagnosed advanced NSCLC without prior operation, and liver metastasis predicted poor OS in EGFR mutation-positive advanced NSCLC patients treated with first-line gefitinib; however, neither BM at initial diagnosis nor intracranial progression during gefitinib treatment had an impact on OS. The Oncologist 2017;22:1-9 IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The finding that chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection might predict poor overall survival (OS) in epidermal growth factor receptor mutation-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients treated with first-line gefitinib may raise awareness of benefit from anti-HCV treatment in this patient population. Brain metastasis in the initial diagnosis or intracranial progression during gefitinib treatment is not a prognostic factor for OS. This study, which enrolled a real-world population of NSCLC patients, including sicker patients who were not eligible for a clinical trial, may have impact on guiding usual clinical practice.RAD51 is an indispensable homologous recombination protein, necessary for strand invasion and crossing over. It has recently been designated as a Fanconi anemia (FA) gene, following the discovery of two patients carrying dominant-negative mutations. FA is a hereditary DNA-repair disorder characterized by various congenital abnormalities, progressive bone marrow failure, and cancer predisposition. In this report, we describe a viable vertebrate model of RAD51 loss. Zebrafish rad51 loss-of-function mutants developed key features of FA, including hypocellular kidney marrow, sensitivity to cross-linking agents, and decreased size. We show that some of these symptoms stem from both decreased proliferation and increased apoptosis of embryonic hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Comutation of p53 was able to rescue the hematopoietic defects seen in the single mutants, but led to tumor development. We further demonstrate that prolonged inflammatory stress can exacerbate the hematological impairment, leading to an additional decrease in kidney marrow cell numbers. These findings strengthen the assignment of RAD51 as a Fanconi gene and provide more evidence for the notion that aberrant p53 signaling during embryogenesis leads to the hematological defects seen later in life in FA. Further research on this zebrafish FA model will lead to a deeper understanding of the molecular basis of bone marrow failure in FA and the cellular role of RAD51.Spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by CAG repeat expansion in the ATXN2 gene. The repeat resides in an encoded region of the gene resulting in polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion which has been assumed to result in gain of function, predominantly, for the ATXN2 protein. We evaluated temporal cerebellar expression profiles by RNA sequencing of ATXN2Q127 mice vs wildtype littermates. ATXN2Q127 mice are characterized by a progressive motor phenotype onset, and have progressive cerebellar molecular and neurophysiological (Purkinje cell firing frequency) phenotypes. Our analysis revealed previously uncharacterized early and progressive abnormal patterning of cerebellar gene expression. Weighted Gene Coexpression Network Analysis (WGCNA) revealed four gene modules that were significantly correlated with disease status, composed primarily of genes associated with GTPase signaling, calcium signaling, and cell death. Of these genes, few overlapped with differentially expressed cerebellar genes that we identified in Atxn2-/- knockout mice vs wildtype littermates, suggesting that loss-of-function is not a significant component of disease pathology. We conclude that SCA2 is a disease characterized by gain of function for ATXN2.BACKGROUND: Filaggrin is an epidermal protein that is important for normal skin barrier functions. Up to 10% of Europeans and Asians carry filaggrin gene (FLG) loss-of function mutations that appear to facilitate trans-epidermal penetration of certain chemicals. We previously showed that mutation carriers have higher internal exposure to certain phthalates, compared to controls, and hypothesized that they could have increased trans-epidermal penetration of other chemicals.
OBJECTIVES: We investigated exposure to non-persistent chemicals in young Danish men with and without FLG mutations.
METHODS: Concentrations of eight simple phenols, six parabens and nine UV filters were analysed in urine from 65 FLG loss-of-function mutation carriers and 130 non-carriers (controls). Regression analyses, controlling for urinary dilution and confounders, were performed to estimate associations between FLG mutation status and chemical concentrations in urine.
RESULTS: FLG mutation carriers had 80% (13-180%) higher urinary concentrations of methyl paraben (MeP) and 91% (13-219%) higher concentrations of n-propyl paraben (n-PrP) than controls. For 13 compounds, levels were higher in FLG mutation carriers, although differences were only statistically significant for MeP and n-PrP. Combined statistical analysis of concentrations of all the 18 compounds that were detectable in >10% of subjects, suggested that concentrations were generally higher in mutation carriers (p=0.03).
CONCLUSION: FLG loss-of-function mutation carriers have a higher internal exposure to some non-persistent chemicals, independently of atopic dermatitis. This may be due to increased trans-epidermal absorption and/or higher exposure, and mutation carriers may constitute a group susceptible to increased absorption of chemicals and topical medication.De novo gain of function mutations in GRIN2B encoding the GluN2B subunit of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor have been linked with epileptic encephalopathies, including infantile spasms. We investigated the effects of radiprodil, a selective GluN2B negative allosteric modulator and other non-selective NMDA receptor inhibitors on glutamate currents mediated by NMDA receptors containing mutated GluN2B subunits. The experiments were performed in Xenopus oocytes co-injected with the following human mRNAs: GRIN1/GRIN2B, GRIN1/GRIN2B-R540H, GRIN1/GRIN2B-N615I and GRIN1/GRIN2B-V618G. Glutamate displayed slightly increased potency in the R540H variant, but not in N615I and V618G variants. However, the inhibition by Mg(2+) was completely abolished in N615I and V618G variants. In fact, Mg(2+) enhanced glutamate responses in those variants. The potency of radiprodil to block glutamate-evoked currents was not affected in any of the variants, while the effects by non-selective NMDA inhibitors were greatly reduced in some of the variants. Additionally, in the Mg(2+) insensitive variants, radiprodil blocked glutamate-activated currents with the same potency as in the absence of Mg(2+). The gain of function observed in the reported GRIN2B variants could be a key pathophysiological factor leading to neuronal hyper-excitability in epileptic encephalopathies. The GluN2B-selective inhibitor radiprodil fully retained its pharmacological profile under these conditions, while other non-selective NMDA receptor antagonists lost their potency. Consequently, our data suggest that radiprodil may be a valuable therapeutic option for treatment of pediatric epileptic encephalopathies associated with GRIN2B mutations.BACKGROUND: PAI-1 gain-of-function variants promote airway fibrosis and are associated with asthma and with worse lung function in subjects with asthma.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine whether the association of a gain-of-function polymorphism in plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) with airway obstruction is modified by asthma status, and whether any genotype effect persists after accounting for common exposures that increase PAI-1 level.
METHODS: We studied 2070 Latino children (8-21y) with genotypic and pulmonary function data from the GALA II cohort. We estimated the relationship of the PAI-1 risk allele with FEV1/FVC by multivariate linear regression, stratified by asthma status. We examined the association of the polymorphism with asthma and airway obstruction within asthmatics via multivariate logistic regression. We replicated associations in the SAPPHIRE cohort of African Americans (n=1056). Secondary analysis included the effect of the at-risk polymorphism on postbronchodilator lung function.
RESULTS: There was an interaction between asthma status and the PAI-1 polymorphism on FEV1 /FVC (P=.03). The gain-of-function variants, genotypes (AA/AG), were associated with lower FEV1 /FVC in subjects with asthma (β=-1.25, CI: -2.14,-0.35, P=.006), but not in controls. Subjects with asthma and the AA/AG genotypes had a 5% decrease in FEV1 /FVC (P<.001). In asthmatics, the risk genotype (AA/AG) was associated with a 39% increase in risk of clinically relevant airway obstruction (OR=1.39, CI: 1.01, 1.92, P=.04). These associations persisted after exclusion of factors that increase PAI-1 including tobacco exposure and obesity.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The decrease in the FEV1 /FVC ratio associated with the risk genotype was modified by asthma status. The genotype increased the odds of airway obstruction by 75% within asthmatics only. As exposures known to increase PAI-1 levels did not mitigate this association, PAI-1 may contribute to airway obstruction in the context of chronic asthmatic airway inflammation.Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is widely expressed in skeletal muscles, cardiac muscles as well as adipose tissue and involved in the catabolism of triglyceride. Herein we have systematically characterized two novel loss-of-function mutations in LPL from a Chinese family in which afflicted members were manifested by severe hypertriglyceridemia and recurrent pancreatitis. DNA sequencing revealed that the proband was a heterozygote carrying a novel c.T928C (p.C310R) mutation in exon 6 of the LPL gene. Another member of the family was detected to be a compound heterozygote who along with the c.T928C mutation also carried a novel missense mutation c.A1187T (p.E396V) in exon 8 of the LPL gene. Furthermore, COS-1 cells were transfected with lentiviruses containing the mutant LPL genes. While C310R markedly reduced the overall LPL protein level, COS-1 cells carrying E396V or double mutations contained similar overall LPL protein levels to the wild-type. The specific activity of the LPL mutants remained at comparable magnitude to the wild-type. However, few LPL were detected in the culture medium for the mutants, suggesting that both mutations caused aberrant triglyceride catabolism. More specifically, E396V and double mutations dampened the transport of LPL to the cell surface, while for the C310R mutation, reducing LPL protein level might be involved. By characterizing these two novel LPL mutations, this study has expanded our understanding on the pathogenesis of familial hypertriglyceridemia (FHTG).Human WNT10A mutations are associated with developmental tooth abnormalities and adolescent onset of a broad range of ectodermal defects. Here we show that β-catenin pathway activity and adult epithelial progenitor proliferation are reduced in the absence of WNT10A, and identify Wnt-active self-renewing stem cells in affected tissues including hair follicles, sebaceous glands, taste buds, nails and sweat ducts. Human and mouse WNT10A mutant palmoplantar and tongue epithelia also display specific differentiation defects that are mimicked by loss of the transcription factor KLF4. We find that β-catenin interacts directly with region-specific LEF/TCF factors, and with KLF4 in differentiating, but not proliferating, cells to promote expression of specialized keratins required for normal tissue structure and integrity. Our data identify WNT10A as a critical ligand controlling adult epithelial proliferation and region-specific differentiation, and suggest downstream β-catenin pathway activation as a potential approach to ameliorate regenerative defects in WNT10A patients.BACKGROUND: Congenital heart disease (CHD) is a common birth defect affecting approximately 1% of newborns. Great progress has been made in elucidating the genetic aetiology of CHD with advances in genomic technology, which we leveraged in recovering a new pathway affecting heart development in humans previously known to affect heart development in an animal model.
METHODS: Four hundred and sixteen individuals from Thailand and the USA diagnosed with CHD and/or congenital diaphragmatic hernia were evaluated with chromosomal microarray and whole exome sequencing. The DECIPHER Consortium and medical literature were searched for additional patients. Murine hearts from ENU-induced mouse mutants and transgenic mice were evaluated using both episcopic confocal histopathology and troponin I stained sections.
RESULTS: Loss of function ROBO1 variants were identified in three families; each proband had a ventricular septal defect, and one proband had tetralogy of Fallot. Additionally, a microdeletion in an individual with CHD was found in the medical literature. Mouse models showed perturbation of the Slit-Robo signalling pathway, causing septation and outflow tract defects and craniofacial anomalies. Two probands had variable facial features consistent with the mouse model.
CONCLUSION: Our findings identify Slit-Robo as a significant pathway in human heart development and CHD.Germline heterozygous gain-of-function (GOF) mutations of NFKBIA, encoding IκBα, cause an autosomal dominant (AD) form of anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency (EDA-ID). Fourteen unrelated patients have been reported since the identification of the first case in 2003. All mutations enhanced the inhibitory activity of IκBα, by preventing its phosphorylation on serine 32 or 36 and its subsequent degradation. The mutation certainly or probably occurred de novo in 13 patients, whereas it was inherited from a parent with somatic mosaicism in one patient. Eleven mutations, belonging to two groups, were identified: (i) missense mutations affecting S32, S36, or neighboring residues (8 mutations, 11 patients) and (ii) nonsense mutations upstream from S32 associated with the reinitiation of translation downstream from S36 (3 mutations, 3 patients). Thirteen patients had developmental features of EDA, the severity and nature of which differed between cases. All patient cells tested displayed impaired NF-κB-mediated responses to the stimulation of various surface receptors involved in cell-intrinsic (fibroblasts), innate (monocytes), and adaptive (B and T cells) immunity, including TLRs, IL-1Rs, TNFRs, TCR, and BCR. All patients had profound B-cell deficiency. Specific immunological features, found in some, but not all patients, included a lack of peripheral lymph nodes, lymphocytosis, dysfunctional α/β T cells, and a lack of circulating γ/δ T cells. The patients had various pyogenic, mycobacterial, fungal, and viral severe infections. Patients with a missense mutation tended to display more severe phenotypes, probably due to higher levels of GOF proteins. In the absence of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), this condition cause death before the age of 1 year (one child). Two survivors have been on prophylaxis (at 9 and 22 years). Six children died after HSCT. Five survived, four of whom have been on prophylaxis (3 to 21 years post HSCT), whereas one has been well with no prophylaxis. Heterozygous GOF mutations in IκBα underlie a severe and syndromic immunodeficiency, the interindividual variability of which might partly be ascribed to the dichotomy of missense and nonsense mutations, and the hematopoietic component of which can be rescued by HSCT.The Aristaless-related homeobox gene (ARX) is indispensable for interneuron development. Patients with ARX polyalanine expansion mutations of the first two tracts (namely PA1 and PA2) suffer from intellectual disability of varying severity, with seizures a frequent comorbidity. The impact of PA1 and PA2 mutations on the brain development is unknown, hindering the search for therapeutic interventions. Here, we characterized the disturbances to cortical interneuron development in mice modeling the two most common ARX polyalanine expansion mutations in human. We found a consistent ∼40-50% reduction of calbindin-positive interneurons, but not Stt+ or Cr+ interneurons, within the cortex of newborn hemizygous mice (p=0.024) for both mutant strains compared to wildtype (p=0.011). We demonstrate that this was a consequence of calbindin precursor cells being arrested or delayed at the ventral subpallium en route of tangential migration. Ex-vivo assay validated this migration deficit in PA1 cells (p=0.0002) suggesting that the defect is contributed by intrinsic loss of Arx function within migrating cells. Both humans and mice with PA1 mutations present with severe clinical features, including intellectual disability and infantile spasms. Our data further demonstrated the pathogenic mechanism was robustly shared between PA1 and PA2 mutations, as previously reported including Arx protein reduction and overlapping transcriptome profiles within the developing mouse brains. Data from our study demonstrated that cortical calbindin interneuron development and migration is negatively affected by ARX polyalanine expansion mutations. Understanding the cellular pathogenesis contributing to disease manifestation is necessary to screen efficacy of potential therapeutic interventions.Apert syndrome is one of the most severe craniosynostoses, resulting from gain-of-function mutations in fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2). Previous studies have shown that gain-of-function mutations of FGFR2 (S252W or P253R) cause skull malformation of human Apert syndrome by affecting both chondrogenesis and osteogenesis, underscoring the key role of FGFR2 in bone development. However, the effects of FGFR2 on bone formation at the adult stage have not been fully investigated. To investigate the role of FGFR2 in bone formation, we generated mice with tamoxifen-inducible expression of mutant FGFR2 (P253R) at the adult stage. Mechanical bone marrow ablation (BMX) was performed in both wild-type and Fgfr2 mutant (MT) mice. Changes in newly formed trabecular bone were assessed by micro-computed tomography and bone histomorphometry. We found that MT mice exhibited increased trabecular bone formation and decreased bone resorption after BMX accompanied with a remarkable increase in bone marrow stromal cell recruitment and proliferation, osteoblast proliferation and differentiation, and enhanced Wnt/?-catenin activity. Furthermore, pharmacologically inhibiting Wnt/β-catenin signaling can partially reverse the increased trabecular bone formation and decreased bone resorption in MT mice after BMX. Our data demonstrate that gain-of-function mutation in FGFR2 exerts a Wnt/β-catenin-dependent anabolic effect on trabecular bone by promoting bone formation and inhibiting bone resorption at the adult stage. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite of phylum Apicomplexa. To facilitate high-efficiency invasion of host cells, T. gondii secretes various proteins related to the moving junction (MJ) complex from rhoptries and micronemes into the interface between the parasite and host. AMA1/RON2/4/5/8 is an important MJ complex, but its mechanism of assembly remains unclear. In this study, we used the CRISPR-Cas9 system to generate a derivative of T. gondii strain RH with a null mutation in TgRON4, thought to be an essential MJ component. Deficiency of TgRON4 moderately decreased invasion ability relative to that of the wild-type parasite. In addition, expression of the endogenous N-terminal fragment of RON5 decreased in the mutant. Together, the results improve our understanding of the assembly mechanism of the MJ complex of T. gondii and raise the possibility of developing new therapeutic drugs that target this complex.Abscission is the mechanism by which plants disconnect unfertilized flowers, ripe fruits, senescent or diseased organs from the plant. In tomato, pedicel abscission is an important agronomic factor that controls yield and post-harvest fruit quality. Two non-allelic mutations, jointless (j) and jointless-2 (j-2), controlling pedicel abscission zone formation have been documented but only j-2 has been extensively used in breeding. J was shown to encode a MADS-box protein. Using a combination of physical mapping and gene expression analysis we identified a positional candidate, Solyc12g038510, associated with j-2 phenotype. Targeted knockout of Solyc12g038510, using CRISPR/Cas9 system, validated our hypothesis. Solyc12g038510 encodes the MADS-box protein SlMBP21. Molecular analysis of j-2 natural variation revealed two independent loss-of-function mutants. The first results of an insertion of a Rider retrotransposable element. The second results of a stop codon mutation that leads to a truncated protein form. To bring new insights into the role of J and J-2 in abscission zone formation, we phenotyped the single and the double mutants and the engineered alleles. We showed that J is epistatic to J-2 and that the branched inflorescences and the leafy sepals observed in accessions harboring j-2 alleles are likely the consequences of linkage drags.BACKGROUND: Congenital nephrotic syndrome (CNS) is a rare disorder caused by various structural and developmental defects of glomeruli. It occurs typically as an isolated kidney disorder but associates sometimes with other systemic, extrarenal manifestations.
CASE PRESENTATIONS: An infant presented with severe CNS, which progressed rapidly to renal failure at age of 3 months and death at 27 months. The clinical phenotypes and genetic causes were studied, including the renal pathology at autopsy. Besides the CNS, the affected child had remarkable right-side predominant eye-ball hypoplasia with bilateral anterior chamber dysgenesis (microcoria). Brain MRI revealed grossly normal development in the cerebrum, cerebellum, and brain stem. Auditory brainstem responses were bilaterally blunted, suggesting a defective auditory system. At autopsy, both kidneys were mildly atrophied with persistent fetal lobulation. Microscopic examination showed a diffuse global sclerosis. However, despite of the smaller size of glomeruli, the nephron number remained similar to that of the age-matched control. Whole-exome sequencing revealed that the affected child was compound heterozygous for novel truncating LAMB2 mutations: a 4-bp insertion (p.Gly1693Alafs*8) and a splicing donor-site substitution (c.1225 + 1G > A), presumably deleting the coiled-coil domains that form the laminin 5-2-1 heterotrimer complex.
CONCLUSIONS: Our case represents a variation of Pierson syndrome that accompanies CNS with unilateral ocular hypoplasia. The average number but smaller glomeruli could reflect either mal-development or glomerulosclerosis. Heterogeneous clinical expression of LAMB2 defects may associate with the difference in fetal β1 subtype compensation among affected tissues. Further study is necessary to evaluate incidence and features of auditory defect under LAMB2 deficiency.BACKGROUND: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMDs) are a heterogeneous group of inherited autosomal myopathies that preferentially affect voluntary muscles of the shoulders and hips. LGMD has been clinically described in several breeds of dogs, but the responsible mutations are unknown. The clinical presentation in dogs is characterized by marked muscle weakness and atrophy in the shoulder and hips during puppyhood.
METHODS: Following clinical evaluation, the identification of the dystrophic histological phenotype on muscle histology, and demonstration of the absence of sarcoglycan-sarcospan complex by immunostaining, whole exome sequencing was performed on five Boston terriers: one affected dog and its three family members and one unrelated affected dog.
RESULTS: Within sarcoglycan-δ (SGCD), a two base pair deletion segregating with LGMD in the family was discovered, and a deletion encompassing exons 7 and 8 was found in the unrelated dog. Both mutations are predicted to cause an absence of SGCD protein, confirmed by immunohistochemistry. The mutations are private to each family.
CONCLUSIONS: Here, we describe the first cases of canine LGMD characterized at the molecular level with the classification of LGMD2F.Calcium signaling is essential for environmental responses including immune responses. Here we provide evidence that the evolutionarily conserved protein BONZAI1 (BON1) functions together with autoinhibited calcium ATPase 10 (ACA10) and ACA8 to regulate calcium signals in Arabidopsis. BON1 is a plasma membrane localized protein that negatively regulates the expression of immune receptor genes and positively regulates stomatal closure. We found that BON1 interacts with the autoinhibitory domains of ACA10 and ACA8, and the aca10 loss of function (LOF) mutants have an autoimmune phenotype similar to that of the bon1 LOF mutants. Genetic evidences indicate that BON1 positively regulates the activities of ACA10 and ACA8. Consistent with this idea, the steady level of calcium concentration is increased in both aca10 and bon1 mutants. Most strikingly, cytosolic calcium oscillation imposed by external calcium treatment was altered in aca10, aca8, and bon1 mutants in guard cells. In addition, calcium and pathogen induced stomatal closure was compromised in the aca10 and bon1 mutants. Taken together, this study indicates that ACA10/8 and BON1 physically interact on plasma membrane and function in the generation of cytosol calcium signatures that are critical for stomatal movement and impact plant immunity.BACKGROUND: Despite considerable investigational efforts, no method to overcome the pathogenesis caused by loss of function (LoF) mutations in tumor suppressor genes has been successfully translated to the clinic. The most frequent LoF mutation in human cancers is Adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), causing aberrant activation of the Wnt pathway. In nearly all colon cancer tumors, the APC protein is truncated, but still retains partial binding abilities.
OBJECTIVE & METHODS: Here, we tested the hypothesis that extracellular inhibitors of the Wnt pathway, although acting upstream of the APC mutation, can restore normal levels of pathway activity in colon cancer cells. To this end, we developed and simulated a mathematical model for the Wnt pathway in different APC mutants, with or without the effects of the extracellular inhibitors, Secreted Frizzled-Related Protein1 (sFRP1) and Dickhopf1 (Dkk1). We compared our model predictions to experimental data in the literature.
RESULTS: Our model accurately predicts T-cell factor (TCF) activity in mutant cells that vary in APC mutation. Model simulations suggest that both sFRP1 and DKK1 can reduce TCF activity in APC1638N/1572T and Apcmin/min mutants, but restoration of normal activity levels is possible only in the former. When applied in combination, synergism between the two inhibitors can reduce their effective doses to one-fourth of the doses required under single inhibitor application. Overall, re-establishment of normal Wnt pathway activity is predicted for every APC mutant in whom TCF activity is increased by up to 11 fold.
CONCLUSIONS: Our work suggests that extracellular inhibitors can effectively restore normal Wnt pathway activity in APC-truncated cancer cells, even though these LoF mutations occur downstream of the inhibitory action. The insufficient activity of the truncated APC can be quantitatively balanced by the upstream intervention. This new concept of upstream intervention to control the effects of downstream mutations may be considered also for other partial LoF mutations in other signaling pathways.We report a new case of hypobetalipoproteinemia in a 44-year-old man of Peruvian origin exhibiting a heterozygous PCSK9 missense mutation (c.946 G>T, p. Gly316Cys). In vitro functional studies demonstrated that this mutation leads to a loss of function of PCSK9 on low-density lipoprotein receptor degradation. This patient exhibited liver steatosis; he was neither diabetic, nor obese or alcoholic, but is a carrier of 2 polymorphisms, p.Ile148Met (rs738409) and p.Glu167Lys (rs58542926) on PNPLA3 and TM6SF2 gene, respectively, previously shown to be associated with nonalcoholic steatosis and fibrosis evolution. These data suggested that if a resistance to hepatic steatosis mediated by the PCSK9 deficiency exists, as demonstrated in mice, it is not sufficient to prevent hepatic fatty accumulation in the case of genetic factors predisposing to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.Although estrogens have been generally considered to play a critical role in ovarian differentiation in non-mammalian vertebrates, the specific functions of estrogens during ovarian differentiation remain unclear. We isolated two mutants with premature stops in the ovarian aromatase (cyp19a1) gene from an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-based gene-driven mutagenesis library of the medaka, Oryzias latipes. In XX mutants, gonads first differentiated into normal ovaries containing many ovarian follicles that failed to accumulate yolk. Subsequently, ovarian tissues underwent extensive degeneration, followed by the appearance of testicular tissues on the dorsal side of ovaries. In the newly formed testicular tissue, strong expression of gsdf was detected in sox9a2-positive somatic cells surrounding germline stem cells suggesting that gsdf plays an important role in testicular differentiation during estrogen-depleted female-to-male sex reversal. We conclude that endogenous estrogens synthesized after fertilization are not essential for early ovarian differentiation but are critical for the maintenance of adult ovaries.BACKGROUND: Alström syndrome (AS), featuring retinal dystrophy, neuronal deafness, cardiomyopathy, metabolic syndrome, and diffuse fibrosis, is caused by biallelic mutations in the centrosomal protein ALMS1. Genotype-phenotype correlation has been suggested without assessment of ALMS1 expression.
METHODS: ALMS1 expression (real-time PCR and immunocytochemistry) and cilia formation (immunocytochemistry) were assessed in fibroblasts from deeply phenotyped volunteers diagnosed with AS recruited from a dedicated AS Service. Exome sequencing was used in two participants without convincing biallelic ALMS1 mutations, and BBS2 (Bardet-Biedl syndrome 2) protein expression was assessed in one patient with biallelic BBS2 mutations. Hedgehog-induced GLI1 expression and PDGFA signaling was assessed using quantitative real-time PCR, immunoblotting, or immunostaining of fixed cells after stimulation.
RESULTS: In 16 of the patient cell lines examined, ALMS1 protein was undetectable (14 with biallelic loss-of-function (LoF) mutations), and in two, ALMS1 staining was equivocal (one with biallelic LoF mutations). In five lines, ALMS1 expression was normal using at least one fixation method (one with biallelic LoF mutations). These differences were not accounted for by major differences in ALMS1 mRNA expression. Exome sequencing of two participants with normal ALMS1 expression identified biallelic LoF BBS2 mutations in one. No second, known ciliopathy mutation was found in the other patient, who had one LoF ALMS1 mutation. Phenotypes were milder or atypical in participants with preserved ALMS1 immunostaining, even when two with likely alternative genetic diagnoses were excluded. All cells studied developed normal cilia, ALMS1 and BBS2 mutant cells showed normal Hedgehog-induced upregulation of GLI1 expression, and PDGFA signaling was normal in ALMS1-deficient cells.
CONCLUSION: Milder or atypical presentations of AS should prompt genetic evaluation for alternative, clinically overlapping ciliopathies. A subgroup of patients with bona fide ALMS1 defects have milder phenotypes due to residual ALMS1 expression, which may be more important than mutation site.Neuronal necrosis occurs during early phase of ischemic insult. However, our knowledge of neuronal necrosis is still inadequate. To study the mechanism of neuronal necrosis, we previously established a Drosophila genetic model of neuronal necrosis by calcium overloading through expression of a constitutively opened cation channel mutant. Here, we performed further genetic screens and identified a suppressor of neuronal necrosis, CG17259, which encodes a seryl-tRNA synthetase. We found that loss-of-function (LOF) CG17259 activated eIF2α phosphorylation and subsequent up-regulation of chaperons (Hsp26 and Hsp27) and autophagy. Genetically, down-regulation of eIF2α phosphorylation, Hsp26/Hsp27 or autophagy reduced the protective effect of LOF CG17259, indicating they function downstream of CG17259. The protective effect of these protein degradation pathways indicated activation of a toxic protein during neuronal necrosis. Our data indicated that p53 was likely one such protein, because p53 was accumulated in the necrotic neurons and down-regulation of p53 rescued necrosis. In the SH-SY5Y human cells, tunicamycin (TM), a PERK activator, promoted transcription of hsp27; and necrosis induced by glutamate could be rescued by TM, associated with reduced p53 accumulation. In an ischemic stroke model in rats, p53 protein was also increased, and TM treatment could reduce the p53 accumulation and brain damage.Immunotherapy with PD-1 checkpoint blockade is effective in only a minority of patients with cancer, suggesting that additional treatment strategies are needed. Here we use a pooled in vivo genetic screening approach using CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing in transplantable tumours in mice treated with immunotherapy to discover previously undescribed immunotherapy targets. We tested 2,368 genes expressed by melanoma cells to identify those that synergize with or cause resistance to checkpoint blockade. We recovered the known immune evasion molecules PD-L1 and CD47, and confirmed that defects in interferon-γ signalling caused resistance to immunotherapy. Tumours were sensitized to immunotherapy by deletion of genes involved in several diverse pathways, including NF-κB signalling, antigen presentation and the unfolded protein response. In addition, deletion of the protein tyrosine phosphatase PTPN2 in tumour cells increased the efficacy of immunotherapy by enhancing interferon-γ-mediated effects on antigen presentation and growth suppression. In vivo genetic screens in tumour models can identify new immunotherapy targets in unanticipated pathways.PurposeHeterozygous germ-line activating mutations in PDGFRB cause Kosaki and Penttinen syndromes and myofibromatosis. We describe a 10-year-old child with a germ-line PDGFRB p.N666H mutation who responded to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib by inhibition of PDGFRB.MethodsThe impact of p.N666H on PDGFRB function and sensitivity to imatinib was studied in cell culture.ResultsCells expressing the p.N666H mutation showed constitutive PDGFRB tyrosine phosphorylation. PDGF-independent proliferation was abolished by imatinib at 1 μM concentration. Patient fibroblasts showed constitutive receptor tyrosine phosphorylation that was also abrogated by imatinib with reduced proliferation of treated cells.This led to patient treatment with imatinib at 400 mg daily (340 mg/m(2)) for a year with objective improvement of debilitating hand and foot contractures, reduced facial coarseness, and significant improvement in quality of life. New small subcutaneous nodules developed, but remained stable. Transient leukopenia, neutropenia, and fatigue resolved without intervention; however, mildly decreased growth velocity resulted in reducing imatinib dose to 200 mg daily (170 mg/m(2)). The patient continues treatment with ongoing clinical response.ConclusionTo our knowledge, this is one of the first personalized treatments of a congenital disorder caused by a germ-line PDGF receptor mutation with a PDGFRB inhibitor.GENETICS in MEDICINE advance online publication, 20 July 2017; doi:10.1038/gim.2017.104.Mutations in the genes encoding the mechanosensitive cation channels PIEZO1 and PIEZO2 are responsible for multiple hereditary human diseases. Loss-of-function mutations in the human PIEZO1 gene cause autosomal recessive congenital lymphatic dysplasia. Gain-of-function mutations in the human PIEZO1 gene cause the autosomal dominant hemolytic anemia, hereditary xerocytosis (also known as dehydrated stomatocytosis). Loss-of-function mutations in the human PIEZO2 gene cause an autosomal recessive syndrome of muscular atrophy with perinatal respiratory distress, arthrogryposis, and scoliosis. Gain-of-function mutations in the human PIEZO2 gene cause three clinical types of autosomal dominant distal arthrogryposis. This chapter will review the hereditary diseases caused by mutations in the PIEZO genes and will discuss additional physiological systems in which PIEZO channel dysfunction may contribute to human disease pathophysiology.KEY POINTS: SCN5a mutations may express gain-of-function (Long QT Syndrome-3), loss-of-function (Brugada Syndrome 1) or both (mixed syndromes), depending on the mutation and environmental triggers. One such trigger may be an increase in cytosolic calcium, accompanying exercise. Many mixed syndromes mutants, including ∆KPQ, E1784K, 1795insD and Q1909R, are found in calcium-sensitive regions. Elevated cytosolic calcium attenuates gain-of-function properties in ∆KPQ, 1795insD and Q1909R, but not in E1784K. By contrast, elevated cytosolic calcium further exacerbates gain-of-function in E1784K by destabilizing slow inactivation. Action potential modelling, using a modified O'Hara Rudy model, suggests that elevated heart rate rescues action potential duration in ∆KPQ, 1795insD and Q1909R, but not in E1784K. Action potential simulations suggest that E1784K carriers have an increased intracellular sodium-to-calcium ratio under bradycardia and tachycardia conditions. Elevated cytosolic calcium, which is common during high heart rates, ameliorates or exacerbates the mixed syndrome phenotype depending on the genetic signature.
ABSTRACT: Inherited arrhythmias may arise from mutations in the gene for SCN5a, which encodes the cardiac voltage-gated sodium channel, NaV 1.5. Mutants in NaV 1.5 result in Brugada Syndrome (BrS1), Long-QT Syndrome (LQT3) or mixed syndromes (an overlap of BrS1/LQT3). Exercise is a potential arrhythmogenic trigger in mixed syndromes. We aimed to determine the effects of elevated cytosolic calcium, which is common during exercise, in mixed syndrome NaV 1.5 mutants. We used whole-cell patch clamp to assess the biophysical properties of NaV 1.5 wild-type (WT), ∆KPQ, E1784K, 1795insD and Q1909R mutants in human embryonic kidney 293 cells transiently transfected with the NaV 1.5 α subunit (WT or mutants), β1 subunit and enhanced green fluorescent protein. Voltage-dependence and kinetics were measured at cytosolic calcium levels of approximately 0, 500 and 2500 nm. In silico, action potential (AP) model simulations were performed using a modified O'Hara Rudy model. Elevated cytosolic calcium attenuates the late sodium current in ∆KPQ, 1795insD and Q1909R, but not in E1784K. Elevated cytosolic calcium restores steady-state slow inactivation (SSSI) to the WT-form in Q1909R, but depolarized SSSI in E1784K. Our AP simulations showed a frequency-dependent reduction of AP duration in ∆KPQ, 1795insD and Q1909R carriers. In E1784K, AP duration is relatively prolonged at both low and high heart rates, resulting in a sodium overload. Cellular perturbations during exercise may affect BrS1/LQT3 patients differently depending on their individual genetic signature. Thus, exercise may be therapeutic or may be an arrhythmogenic trigger in some SCN5a patients.KV7.1 and KCNE1 co-assemble to give rise to the IKs current, one of the most important repolarizing currents of the cardiac action potential. Its relevance is underscored by the identification of >500 mutations in KV7.1 and, at least, 36 in KCNE1, that cause Long QT Syndrome (LQTS). The aim of this study was to characterize the biophysical and cellular consequences of the D242N KV7.1 mutation associated with the LQTS. The mutation is located in the S4 transmembrane segment, within the voltage sensor of the KV7.1 channel, disrupting the conserved charge balance of this region. Perforated patch-clamp experiments show that, unexpectedly, the mutation did not disrupt the voltage-dependent activation but it removed the inactivation and slowed the activation kinetics of D242N KV7.1 channels. Biotinylation of cell-surface protein and co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that neither plasma membrane targeting nor co-assembly between KV7.1 and KCNE1 was altered by the mutation. However, the association of D242N KV7.1 with KCNE1 strongly shifted the voltage dependence of activation to more depolarized potentials (+50mV), hindering IKs current at physiologically relevant membrane potentials. Both functional and computational analysis suggest that the clinical phenotype of the LQTS patients carrying the D242N mutation is due to impaired action potential adaptation to exercise and, in particular, to increase in heart rate. Moreover, our data identify D242 aminoacidic position as a potential residue involved in the KCNE1-mediated regulation of the voltage dependence of activation of the KV7.1 channel.Renal agenesis (RA) is one of the more extreme examples of congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT). Bilateral renal agenesis is almost invariably fatal at birth, and unilateral renal agenesis can lead to future health issues including end stage renal disease. Genetic investigations have identified several gene variants which cause RA, including EYA1, LHX1, and WT1 However, whereas compound null mutations of genes encoding α and γ retinoic acid receptors (RARs) cause RA in mice, to date there have been no reports of variants in RAR genes causing RA in humans. In this study, we carried out whole exome sequence analysis of two families showing inheritance of an RA phenotype, and in both identified a single candidate gene, GREB1L Analysis of a zebrafish greb1l loss-of-function mutant revealed defects in the pronephric kidney just prior to death, and F0 CRISPR/Cas9 mutagenesis of Greb1l in the mouse revealed kidney agenesis phenotypes, implicating Greb1l in this disorder. GREB1L resides in a chromatin complex with RAR members, and our data implicate GREB1L as a coactivator for RARs. This study is the first to associate a component of the RAR pathway with renal agenesis in humans.The closely related paralogues FOXP2 and FOXP1 encode transcription factors with shared functions in the development of many tissues, including the brain. However, while mutations in FOXP2 lead to a speech/language disorder characterized by childhood apraxia of speech (CAS), the clinical profile of FOXP1 variants includes a broader neurodevelopmental phenotype with global developmental delay, intellectual disability, and speech/language impairment. Using clinical whole-exome sequencing, we report an identical de novo missense FOXP1 variant identified in three unrelated patients. The variant, p.R514H, is located in the forkhead-box DNA-binding domain and is equivalent to the well-studied p.R553H FOXP2 variant that cosegregates with CAS in a large UK family. We present here for the first time a direct comparison of the molecular and clinical consequences of the same mutation affecting the equivalent residue in FOXP1 and FOXP2. Detailed functional characterization of the two variants in cell model systems revealed very similar molecular consequences, including aberrant subcellular localization, disruption of transcription factor activity, and deleterious effects on protein interactions. Nonetheless, clinical manifestations were broader and more severe in the three cases carrying the p.R514H FOXP1 variant than in individuals with the p.R553H variant related to CAS, highlighting divergent roles of FOXP2 and FOXP1 in neurodevelopment.Phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase (PRPPS) superactivity (OMIM 300661) is a rare inborn error of purine metabolism that is caused by gain-of-function mutations in the X-chromosomal gene PRPS1 (Xq22.3). Clinical characteristics include congenital hyperuricemia and hyperuricosuria, gouty arthritis, urolithiasis, developmental delay, hypotonia, recurrent infections, short stature, and hearing loss. Only eight families with PRPPS superactivity and PRPS1 gain-of-function mutations have been reported to date. We report on a 7-year-old boy with congenital hyperuricemia, urolithiasis, developmental delay, short stature, hypospadias, and facial dysmorphisms. His mother also suffered from hyperuricemia that was diagnosed at age 13 years. A novel PRPS1 missense mutation (c.573G>C, p.[Leu191Phe]) was detected in the proband and his mother. Enzyme activity analysis confirmed superactivity of PRPP synthetase. Analysis of the crystal structure of human PRPPS suggests that the Leu191Phe mutation affects the architecture of both allosteric sites, thereby preventing the allosteric inhibition of the enzyme. The family reported here broadens the clinical spectrum of PRPPS superactivity and indicates that this rare metabolic disorder might be associated with a recognizable facial gestalt.Identifying the sequence polymorphisms underlying complex trait variation is a key goal of genetics research, since knowing the precise causative molecular events allows insight into the pathways governing trait variation. Genetic analysis of complex traits in model systems regularly starts by constructing QTL maps, but generally fails to identify causative sequence polymorphisms. Previously we mapped a series of QTL contributing to resistance to nicotine in a Drosophila melanogaster multiparental mapping resource, and here use a battery of functional tests to resolve QTL to the molecular level. One large-effect QTL resided over a cluster of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases, and quantitative complementation tests using deficiencies eliminating subsets of these detoxification genes revealed allelic variation impacting resistance. RNAseq showed that Ugt86Dd had significantly higher expression in genotypes that are more resistant to nicotine, and anterior midgut-specific RNAi of this gene reduced resistance. We discovered a segregating 22-bp frameshift deletion in Ugt86Dd, and accounting for the InDel during mapping largely eliminates the QTL, implying the event explains the bulk of the effect of the mapped locus. CRISPR/Cas9 editing a relatively resistant genotype to generate lesions in Ugt86Dd that recapitulate the naturally-occurring putative loss-of-function allele leads to a large reduction in resistance. Despite this major effect of the deletion, the allele appears to be very rare in wild-caught populations, and likely explains only a small fraction of the natural variation for the trait. Nonetheless, this putatively causative coding InDel can be a launchpad for future mechanistic exploration of xenobiotic detoxification.Plants have evolved a limited repertoire of NB-LRR disease resistance (R) genes to protect themselves against a myriad of pathogens. This limitation is thought to be counterbalanced by the rapid evolution of NB-LRR proteins, as only few sequence changes have been shown to be sufficient to alter resistance specificities towards novel strains of a pathogen. However, little is known about the flexibility of NB-LRR genes to switch resistance specificities between phylogenetically unrelated pathogens. To investigate this, we created domain swaps between the close homologs Gpa2 and Rx1, which confer resistance in potato to the cyst nematode Globodera pallida and Potato virus X (PVX), respectively. The genetic fusion of the CC-NB-ARC of Gpa2 with the LRR of Rx1 (Gpa2CN/Rx1L) resulted in autoactivity, but lowering the protein levels restored its specific activation response including extreme resistance to PVX in potato shoots. The reciprocal construct (Rx1CN/Gpa2L) showed a loss-of-function phenotype, but exchange of the first 3 LRR repeats of Rx1 was sufficient to regain a wild type resistance response to G. pallida in the roots. These data demonstrate that exchanging the recognition moiety in the LRR is sufficient to convert extreme virus resistance in the leaves into mild nematode resistance in the roots, and vice versa. In addition, we show that the CC-NB-ARC can operate independently of the recognition specificities defined by the LRR domain, either above or belowground. These data show the versatility of NB-LRR genes to generate resistances to unrelated pathogens with completely different lifestyles and routes of invasion.A 2-year-old boy presented profound developmental delay, failure to thrive, ataxia, hypotonia and tonic-clonic seizures that caused the death of the patient. Targeted and whole-exome sequencing revealed two heterozygous missense variants: a novel mutation in KCNJ10 gene that encodes for the inwardly-rectifying K(+) channel Kir4.1 and another previously characterized mutation in KCNT1 that encodes for the Na(+)-activated K(+) channel known as Slo2.2 or SLACK. The objectives of this study were to perform the clinical and genetic characterization of the proband and his family and to examine the functional consequence of the Kir4.1 mutation. The mutant and wild-type KCNJ10 constructs were generated and heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, and whole-cell K(+) currents were measured using the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique. The KCNJ10 mutation c.652C>T resulted in a p.L218F substitution at a highly conserved residue site. Wild-type KCNJ10 expression yielded robust Kir currents, while currents from oocytes expressing the mutation were reduced. Western Blot analysis revealed reduced protein expression by the mutation. Kir5.1 subunits display selective heteromultimerization with Kir4.1 constituting channels with unique kinetics. The effect of the mutation on Kir4.1/5.1 channel activity was twofold: a reduction in current amplitudes and an increase in the pH-dependent inhibition. We thus report a novel loss-of-function mutation in Kir4.1 found in a patient with a co-exiting mutation in SLACK channels that results in a fatal disease.Congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS) is associated with high genetic and allelic heterogeneity. In some cases, more than one genetic variant is identified in the same (compound heterozygosity) or different (digenic heterozygosity) genes, and subjects with multiple pathogenic mutations may have a more severe disease. Standard-of-care clinical genetic testing for this and other arrhythmia susceptibility syndromes improves the identification of complex genotypes. Therefore, it is important to distinguish between pathogenic mutations and benign rare variants. We identified four genetic variants (KCNQ1-p.R583H, KCNH2-p.C108Y, KCNH2-p.K897T, and KCNE1-p.G38S) in an LQTS family. On the basis of in silico analysis, clinical data from our family, and the evidence from previous studies, we analyzed two mutated channels, KCNQ1-p.R583H and KCNH2-p.C108Y, using the whole-cell patch clamp technique. We found that KCNQ1-p.R583H was not associated with a severe functional impairment, whereas KCNH2-p.C108Y, a novel variant, encoded a non-functional channel that exerts dominant-negative effects on the wild-type. Notably, the common variants KCNH2-p.K897T and KCNE1-p.G38S were previously reported to produce more severe phenotypes when combined with disease-causing alleles. Our results indicate that the novel KCNH2-C108Y variant can be a pathogenic LQTS mutation, whereas KCNQ1-p.R583H, KCNH2-p.K897T, and KCNE1-p.G38S could be LQTS modifiers.OsHRZ1 is a potential iron-binding sensor. However, it is unclear how OsHRZ1 transmits signals. In this study, we reveal that OsPRI1 interacts with OsHRZ1. A loss-of-function mutation to OsPRI1 increased the sensitivity of plants to Fe-deficient conditions and downregulated the expression of Fe-deficiency-responsive genes. Yeast one-hybrid and electrophoretic mobility shift assay results suggested that OsPRI1 binds to the OsIRO2 and OsIRO3 promoters. In vitro ubiquitination experiments indicated that OsPRI1 is ubiquitinated by OsHRZ1. Cell-free degradation assays revealed that the stability of OsPRI1 decreased in wild type roots, but increased in the hrz1-2 mutant, suggesting OsHRZ1 is responsible for the instability of OsPRI1. The hrz1-2 seedlings were insensitive to Fe-deficient conditions. When the pri1-1 mutation was introduced into hrz1-2 mutants, the pri1hrz1 double mutant was more sensitive to Fe deficiency than the hrz1-2 mutant. Additionally, the expression levels of Fe-deficiency-responsive genes were lower in the hrz1pri1 double mutant than in the hrz1-2 mutant. Collectively, these results imply that OsPRI1, which is ubiquitinated by OsHRZ1, mediates rice responses to Fe-deficiency by positively regulating OsIRO2 and OsIRO3 expression as part of the OsHRZ1-OsPRI1-OsIRO2/3 signal transduction cascade.Genetic alterations of the transcription factor IKZF1 ("IKAROS") are detected in around 15-30% of cases of BCR-ABL-negative B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Different types of intragenic deletions have been observed, resulting in a functionally inactivated allele ("loss-of-function") or in "dominant-negative" isoforms. The prognostic impact of these alterations especially in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia is not well defined. We analyzed 482 well-characterized cases of adult BCR-ABL-negative B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia uniformly treated in the framework of the GMALL studies and detected IKZF1 alterations in 128 cases (27%). In 20%, the IKZF1 alteration was present in a large fraction of leukemic cells ("high deletion load") while in 7% it was detected only in small subclones ("low deletion load"). Some patients showed more than one IKZF1 alteration (8%). Patients exhibiting a loss-of-function isoform with high deletion load had a shorter overall survival (OS at 5 years 28% vs. 59%, p<0.0001), also significant in a subgroup analysis of standard risk patients according to GMALL classification (OS at 5 years 37% vs. 68%, p=0.0002). Low deletion load or dominant-negative IKZF1 alterations had no prognostic impact. The results thus suggest that there is a clear distinction between loss-of-function and dominant-negative IKZF1 deletions. Affected patients should thus be monitored for minimal residual disease carefully to detect incipient relapses at an early stage and they are potential candidates for alternative or intensified treatment regimes. Registered at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov: NCT00199056, NCT00198991.Stress-induced sleep (SIS) in C. elegans is important for restoration of cellular homeostasis and is a useful model to study the function and regulation of sleep. SIS is triggered when epidermal growth factor (EGF) activates the ALA neuron, which then releases neuropeptides to promote sleep. To further understand this behavior, we established a new model of stress-induced sleep using irradiation by ultraviolet C (UVC) light. While UVC irradiation requires ALA signaling and leads to a sleep state similar to that induced by heat and other stressors, it does not induce the proteostatic stress seen with heat exposure. Based on the known genotoxic effects of UVC irradiation, we tested two genes-atl-1 and cep-1-which encode proteins that act in the DNA damage response pathway. Loss of function mutants of atl-1 had no defect in UVC induced SIS but a partial loss of function mutant of cep-1, gk138, had decreased movement quiescence following UVC irradiation. Germline ablation experiments and tissue-specific RNA interference experiments showed that cep-1 is required somatically in neurons for its effect on SIS. The cep-1(gk138) mutant suppressed body movement quiescence controlled by EGF, indicating that CEP-1 acts downstream or in parallel to ALA activation to promote quiescence in response to ultraviolet light.Background Proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9) regulates low-density lipoprotein and very low-density lipoprotein receptor expression in several tissues. Here we evaluated whether PCSK9 may modulate the handling of triglycerides in the liver and peripheral tissues. Methods Subjects from the PLIC cohort were genotyped for the loss-of-function PCSK9 R46L variant and characterized for clinical and biochemical parameters, total and android fat mass, hepatic steatosis and epicardial fat thickness. Visceral adipose tissue and subcutaneous adipose tissue in PCSK9 KO and wild type mice were quantified by nuclear magnetic resonance imaging. Results Carriers of the R46L variant ( n = 13) had lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, higher body mass index and increased percentage of total and android fat masses compared with non-carriers ( n = 521). R46L variant associated with a two-fold increase prevalence of hepatic steatosis and higher epicardial fat thickness. These observations were replicated in PCSK9 KO mice, which showed increased visceral adipose tissue (but not subcutaneous adipose tissue) when fed chow or high-fat diet for 20 weeks, compared with wild type mice. Conclusions These data suggest that genetically determined PCSK9 deficiency might be associated with ectopic fat accumulation.The initiating oncogenic event in almost half of human lung adenocarcinomas is still unknown, a fact that complicates the development of selective targeted therapies. Yet these tumours harbour a number of alterations without obvious oncogenic function including BRAF-inactivating mutations. Inactivating BRAF mutants in lung predominate over the activating V600E mutant that is frequently observed in other tumour types. Here we demonstrate that the expression of an endogenous Braf(D631A) kinase-inactive isoform in mice (corresponding to the human BRAF(D594A) mutation) triggers lung adenocarcinoma in vivo, indicating that BRAF-inactivating mutations are initiating events in lung oncogenesis. Moreover, inactivating BRAF mutations have also been identified in a subset of KRAS-driven human lung tumours. Co-expression of Kras(G12V) and Braf(D631A) in mouse lung cells markedly enhances tumour initiation, a phenomenon mediated by Craf kinase activity, and effectively accelerates tumour progression when activated in advanced lung adenocarcinomas. We also report a key role for the wild-type Braf kinase in sustaining Kras(G12V)/Braf(D631A)-driven tumours. Ablation of the wild-type Braf allele prevents the development of lung adenocarcinoma by inducing a further increase in MAPK signalling that results in oncogenic toxicity; this effect can be abolished by pharmacological inhibition of Mek to restore tumour growth. However, the loss of wild-type Braf also induces transdifferentiation of club cells, which leads to the rapid development of lethal intrabronchiolar lesions. These observations indicate that the signal intensity of the MAPK pathway is a critical determinant not only in tumour development, but also in dictating the nature of the cancer-initiating cell and ultimately the resulting tumour phenotype.Control of phosphate metabolism is crucial to regulate aging in mammals. Klotho is a well-known anti-aging factor that regulates phosphate metabolism: mice mutant or deficient in Klotho exhibit phenotypes resembling human aging. Here we show that ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (Enpp1) is required for Klotho expression under phosphate overload conditions. Loss-of-function Enpp1 (ttw/ttw) mice under phosphate overload conditions exhibited phenotypes resembling human aging and Klotho mutants, such as short life span, arteriosclerosis and osteoporosis, with elevated serum 1,25(OH)2D3 levels. Enpp1 (ttw/ttw) mice also exhibited significantly reduced renal Klotho expression under phosphate overload conditions, and aging phenotypes in these mice were rescued by Klotho overexpression, a low vitamin D diet or vitamin D receptor knockout. These findings indicate that Enpp1 plays a crucial role in regulating aging via Klotho expression under phosphate overload conditions.Autophagy is involved in cellular development and the maintenance of viability under nutrient deprivation in a wide range of eukaryotes. A filamentous ascomycete Bipolaris maydis, responsible for southern corn leaf blight, is also studied as a model fungus for sexual reproduction in filamentous ascomycetes that form filiform ascospores. In order to clarify the roles of autophagy in various stages of the life cycle of B. maydis, we constructed null mutants of BmATG8, an orthologue of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae autophagy gene ATG8 in B. maydis. Deletion of BmATG8 impaired localization of cytosolic components to the vacuole under nitrogen starvation, suggesting that autophagy was deficient in the null mutants. Additionally, fluorescent microscopic observations on a eGFP-fused BmATG8 expressing strain showed that BmATG8 is associated with autophagy-related structures. In vegetative growth, ΔBmATG8 strains showed a reduction in conidiation and aerial mycelial growth. Interestingly, the mutant conidia indicated loss of the germination rate under starvation conditions and affected longevity. However, germinated mutant conidia were still capable of infecting the host plant via appressoria. In sexual reproduction, ascospores with ΔBmATG8 genetic background were aborted. Our results revealed that autophagy plays a crucial role in the function of conidia, not in host infection via appressoria in B. maydis. In addition, conservation of the importance of autophagy in ascospore development is suggested among ascomycetes including species that form bitunicate ascus.Pitt-Hopkins syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by severe intellectual disability and a distinctive facial gestalt. It is caused by haploinsufficiency of the TCF4 gene. The TCF4 protein has different functional domains, with the NLS (nuclear localization signal) domain coded by exons 7-8 and the bHLH (basic Helix-Loop-Helix) domain coded by exon 18. Several alternatively spliced TCF4 variants have been described, allowing for translation of variable protein isoforms. Typical PTHS patients have impairment of at least the bHLH domain. To which extent impairment of the remaining domains contributes to the final phenotype is not clear. There is recent evidence that certain loss-of-function variants disrupting TCF4 are associated with mild ID, but not with typical PTHS. We describe a frameshift-causing partial gene deletion encompassing exons 4-6 of TCF4 in an adult patient with mild ID and nonspecific facial dysmorphisms but without the typical features of PTHS, and a c.520C > T nonsense variant within exon 8 in a child presenting with a severe phenotype largely mimicking PTHS, but lacking the typical facial dysmorphism. Investigation on mRNA, along with literature review, led us to suggest a preliminary phenotypic map of loss-of-function variants affecting TCF4. An intragenic phenotypic map of loss-of-function variants in TCF4 is suggested here for the first time: variants within exons 1-4 and exons 4-6 give rise to a recurrent phenotype with mild ID not in the spectrum of Pitt-Hopkins syndrome (biallelic preservation of both the NLS and bHLH domains); variants within exons 7-8 cause a severe phenotype resembling PTHS but in absence of the typical facial dysmorphism (impairment limited to the NLS domain); variants within exons 9-19 cause typical Pitt-Hopkins syndrome (impairment of at least the bHLH domain). Understanding the TCF4 molecular syndromology can allow for proper nosology in the current era of whole genomic investigations.Nonsyndromic cleft lip and/or palate (NSCL/P) is a prevalent birth defect of complex etiology. Previous studies identified mutations in ARHGAP29 associated with an increased risk for NSCL/P. To investigate the effects of ARHGAP29 in vivo, we generated a novel murine allele by inserting a point mutation identified in a patient with NSCL/P. This single-nucleotide variation of ARHGAP29 translates to an early nonsense mutation (K326X), presumably resulting in loss-of-function (LoF). Embryos from Arhgap29(K326X/+) intercrosses were harvested at various time points. No homozygous Arhgap29(K326X) animals were found in the 45 analyzed litters, assessed as early as embryonic day 8.5 (e8.5). Coronal sectioning of e13.5 and e14.5 heads revealed that 59% of Arhgap29(K326X/+) mice ( n = 37) exhibited improper epithelial contact between developing oral structures, while none were observed in wild types ( n = 10). In addition, Arhgap29(K326X/+) embryos exhibited a significantly higher percentage of maxillary epithelium in contact with mandibular epithelium. Immunofluorescent analyses of the periderm and oral adhesions revealed the presence of Arhgap29 in periderm cells. These cells were p63 negative, keratin 17 positive, and keratin 6 positive and present at sites of adhesion, although occasionally disorganized. Oral adhesions did not appear to impair palatogenesis, as all analyzed Arhgap29(K326X/+) embryos showed confluent palatal mesenchyme and epithelium at e18.5 ( n = 16), and no mice were found with a cleft at birth. Collectively, our data demonstrate that ARHGAP29 is required for embryonic survival and that heterozygosity for LoF variants of Arhgap29 increases the incidence and length of oral adhesions at a critical time point during orofacial development. In conclusion, we validate the LoF nature of the human K326X mutation in vivo and reveal a previously unknown effect of Arhgap29 in murine craniofacial development.Genetic medicine applied to the study of hemochromatosis has identified the systemic loop controlling iron homeostasis, centered on hepcidin-ferroportin interaction. Current challenges are to dissect the molecular pathways underlying liver hepcidin synthesis in response to circulatory iron, HFE, TFR2, HJV, TMPRSS6 and BMP6 functions, and to define the major structural elements of hepcidin-ferroportin interaction. We built a first 3D model of human ferroportin structure, using the crystal structure of EmrD, a bacterial drug efflux transporter of the Major Facilitator Superfamily, as template. The model enabled study of disease-associated mutations, and guided mutagenesis experiments to determine the role of conserved residues in protein stability and iron transport. Results revealed novel amino acids that are critical for the iron export function and the hepcidin-mediated inhibition mechanism: for example, tryptophan 42, localized in the extracellular end of the ferroportin pore and involved in both biological functions. Here, we propose a strategy that is not limited to structure analysis, but integrates information from different sources, including human disease-associated mutations and functional in vitro assays. The first major hypothesis of this PhD thesis is that ferroportin resistance to hepcidin relies on different molecular mechanisms that are critical for ferroportin endocytosis, and include at least three fundamental steps: (i) hepcidin binding to ferroportin, (ii) structural reorganization of the N- and C-ter ferroportin lobes, and (iii) ferroportin ubiquitination.BACKGROUND: Loss-of-function mutations in filaggrin gene (FLG) have been suggested to increase the susceptibility of skin malignancies due to reduced levels of epidermal filaggrin and its degradation products, urocanic acid, which may be protective against ultraviolet irradiation.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the association between FLG mutation status and the occurrence of malignant melanoma (MM) in Danish adults.
METHODS: The prevalence of FLG mutations in a sample of MM biopsies was compared with a FLG genotyped cohort from two general population studies. Pearson's chi-square and Fisher's exact tests were used to compare the two groups.
RESULTS: A total of 867 MM biopsies and 9965 general population controls were genotyped, respectively. In the MM sample 2 (0.23%) individuals were homozygous and 80 (9.4%) heterozygous mutation carriers. In the general population controls the prevalence of FLG mutations was 18 (0.18%) and 835 (8.4%) for homozygous and heterozygous mutations, respectively. Fisher's exact test and Pearson's chi square test yielded non-significant p-values when the groups were compared.
CONCLUSION: FLG mutation was not associated with MM in the studied populations. This finding indicates that epidermal deficiency of filaggrin and its degradation products do not influence the risk of MM significantly. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.BACKGROUND: Most immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is sporadic but a positive family history of ITP in some patients suggests that hereditary forms exist. Due to the rarity of familial ITP families available for study and the heterogeneity of sporadic ITP, family linkage analysis or genome wide association studies are limited.
OBJECTIVES: Based on one ITP pedigree, we try to identify the predisposing gene in familial or sporadic ITP and reveal the way in which it causes thrombocytopenia.
METHODS: Gene expression profiling analysis and whole-exome sequencing was performed on samples from familial ITP members, sporadic ITP cases and healthy individuals. We also evaluated the influence of potential pathogenic mutation on immune function and megakaryocyte apoptosis.
RESULTS: Whole-exome sequencing identified a potential pathologic p.G76S heterozygous mutation on the TNFRSF13B gene in familial ITP patients. ITP patients harboring G76S mutation displayed upregulated "cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction" signal, increased serum TNFα, IL-17α, IFNγ and BAFF levels, and enhanced binding capacity of APRIL ligand to B cells. Additionally, EBV-transformed B cells with the G76S mutation could induce human megakaryocyte line (Meg-01) apoptosis significantly.
CONCLUSION: p.G76S mutation on TNFRSF13B gene is responsible for ITP, and is a genetic predisposing factor for familial or sporadic ITP. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.Macrolactonization of natural product analogs presents a significant challenge to both biosynthetic assembly and synthetic chemistry. In the preceding paper, we identified a thioesterase (TE) domain catalytic bottleneck in the processing of un-natural substrates in the pikromycin (Pik) system, preventing the formation of epimerized macrolactones. Here, we perform molecular dynamics (MD) simulations showing the epimerized hexaketide was accommodated within the Pik TE active site; however, intrinsic conformational preferences of the substrate resulted in predominately unproductive conformations, in agreement with the observed hydrolysis. Accordingly, we engineered the stereospecific Pik TE to yield a variant (TES148C) with improved reaction kinetics and gain-of-function processing of an unnatural, epimerized hexaketide. Quantum mechanical (QM) comparison of model TES148C and TEWT reaction coordinate diagrams revealed a change in mechanism from a stepwise addition-elimination (TEWT) to a lower energy concerted acyl substitution (TES148C), accounting for the gain-of-function and improved reaction kinetics. Finally, we introduced the S148C mutation into a polyketide synthase module (PikAIII-TE) to impart increased substrate flexibility, enabling the production of diastereomeric macrolactones.Carboxylesterase 1 (CES1) is the predominant human hepatic hydrolase responsible for the metabolism of many clinically important medications. CES1 expression and activity vary markedly among individuals; and genetic variation is a major contributing factor to CES1 interindividual variability. In the present study, we comprehensively examined the functions of CES1 nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) and haplotypes using transfected cell lines and individual human liver tissues. The 20 candidate variants include CES1 nsSNPs with a minor allele frequency (MAF) > 0.5% in a given population or located in close proximity to the CES1 active site. Five nsSNPs including L40Ter (rs151291296), G142E (rs121912777), G147C (rs146456965), Y170D (rs148947808), and R171C (rs201065375) were found to be loss-of-function variants for metabolizing the CES1 substrates clopidogrel, enalapril, and sacubitril. Additionally, the A158V (rs202121317), R199H (rs2307243), E220G (rs200707504), and T290M (rs202001817) decreased CES1 activity to a lesser extent in a substrate-dependent manner. Several nsSNPs including the L40Ter (rs151291296), G147C (rs146456965), Y170D (rs148947808), and R171C (rs201065375) significantly reduced CES1 protein and/or mRNA expressions in the transfected cells. Functions of the common nonsynonymous haplotypes D203E-A269S and S75N-D203E-A269S were evaluated using cells stably expressing the haplotypes and a large set of human livers. Neither CES1 expression nor activity were affected by the two haplotypes. In sum, the study revealed several functional nsSNPs with impaired activity on the metabolism of CES1 substrate drugs. Clinical investigations are warranted to determine whether these nsSNPs can serve as biomarkers for the prediction of therapeutic outcomes of drugs metabolized by CES1.Granulin (Grn) mutations were identified in familial frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) patients with TAR DNA-binding protein of 43 kd (TDP-43) pathology. Grn transcript haploinsufficiency is proposed as a disease mechanism that leads to the loss of functional progranulin (PGRN) protein. Thus, these mutations are strongly involved in FTLD pathogenesis. Moreover, recent findings indicate that Grn mutations are associated with other neurodegenerative disorders with tau pathology, including Alzheimer's disease. To investigate the influence of PGRN on amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation, amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice were interbred with Grn-deficient mice, producing APP transgenic mice harboring the Grn hemizygote (APP/Grn+/-). Brains were collected from 16-18-month-old APP and APP/Grn+/- mice and sequential extraction of proteins, immunoblotting and immunohistochemical analysis were performed. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that the number and area of Aβ plaque was significantly decreased in APP/Grn+/- mice as compared to APP mice. Immunoblotting analysis revealed that Aβ was reduced in the sarkosyl-insoluble fraction of 16-18-month-old APP/Grn+/- mice as compared with that of APP transgenic mice. Our data suggest that PGRN haploinsufficiency may decrease accumulation of Aβ.OBJECTIVES: Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and adenocarcinoma (OAC) are distinct cancers in terms of a number of clinical and epidemiological characteristics, complicating the design of clinical trials and biomarker developments. We analysed 1048 oesophageal tumour-germline pairs from both subtypes, to characterise their genomic features, and biological and clinical significance.
DESIGN: Previously exome-sequenced samples were re-analysed to identify significantly mutated genes (SMGs) and mutational signatures. The biological functions of novel SMGs were investigated using cell line and xenograft models. We further performed whole-genome bisulfite sequencing and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-seq to characterise epigenetic alterations.
RESULTS: OSCC and OAC displayed nearly mutually exclusive sets of driver genes, indicating that they follow independent developmental paths. The combined sample size allowed the statistical identification of a number of novel subtype-specific SMGs, mutational signatures and prognostic biomarkers. Particularly, we identified a novel mutational signature similar to Catalogue Of Somatic Mutations In Cancer (COSMIC)signature 16, which has prognostic value in OSCC. Two newly discovered SMGs, CUL3 and ZFP36L2, were validated as important tumour-suppressors specific to the OSCC subtype. We further identified their additional loss-of-function mechanisms. CUL3 was homozygously deleted specifically in OSCC and other squamous cell cancers (SCCs). Notably, ZFP36L2 is associated with super-enhancer in healthy oesophageal mucosa; DNA hypermethylation in its super-enhancer reduced active histone markers in squamous cancer cells, suggesting an epigenetic inactivation of a super-enhancer-associated SCC suppressor.
CONCLUSIONS: These data comprehensively contrast differences between OSCC and OAC at both genomic and epigenomic levels, and reveal novel molecular features for further delineating the pathophysiological mechanisms and treatment strategies for these cancers.Post-zygotic activating mutations in PIK3CA and other genes encoding members of PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway have been found in various overgrowth syndromes that have been grouped together as PIK3CA-related overgrowth spectrum (PROS). We report a female patient with gait disturbance, leg pain, isolated macrodactyly of the foot, and mild intellectual disability. Imaging of the lower limb showed a lipoblastoma of the right thigh. A mosaic gain-of-function mutation in the catalytic domain of PIK3CA (c.3140 A > G; p.His1047Arg) was detected in the adipose tissue and in skin cultured fibroblasts from the macrodactyly but not in blood. The leg pain and the severe walking disturbance improved slightly over time and serial MRI of the lower limbs suggested that the size of the lipoblastoma relative to the lower limb muscles or to the whole lower limb was unchanged as consequence of limb growth. This case report illustrates that pain and gait disturbance can be features of PROS and highlights the need of better knowledge about the natural history of the disease.In contrast to the progress that has been made toward understanding the genetic etiology of cleft lip with or without cleft palate, relatively little is known about the genetic etiology for cleft palate only (CPO). A common coding variant of grainyhead like transcription factor 3 ( GRHL3) was recently shown to be associated with risk for CPO in Europeans. Mutations in this gene were also reported in families with Van der Woude syndrome. To identify rare mutations in GRHL3 that might explain the missing heritability for CPO, we sequenced GRHL3 in cases of CPO from Africa. We recruited participants from Ghana, Ethiopia, and Nigeria. This cohort included case-parent trios, cases and other family members, as well as controls. We sequenced exons of this gene in DNA from a total of 134 nonsyndromic cases. When possible, we sequenced them in parents to identify de novo mutations. Five novel mutations were identified: 2 missense (c.497C>A; p.Pro166His and c.1229A>G; p.Asp410Gly), 1 splice site (c.1282A>C p.Ser428Arg), 1 frameshift (c.470delC; p.Gly158Alafster55), and 1 nonsense (c.1677C>A; p.Tyr559Ter). These mutations were absent from 270 sequenced controls and from all public exome and whole genome databases, including the 1000 Genomes database (which includes data from Africa). However, 4 of the 5 mutations were present in unaffected mothers, indicating that their penetrance is incomplete. Interestingly, 1 mutation damaged a predicted sumoylation site, and another disrupted a predicted CK1 phosphorylation site. Overexpression assays in zebrafish and reporter assays in vitro indicated that 4 variants were functionally null or hypomorphic, while 1 was dominant negative. This study provides evidence that, as in Caucasian populations, mutations in GRHL3 contribute to the risk of nonsyndromic CPO in the African population.Recent cell culture and animal studies have suggested that expression of human apo C-III in the liver has a profound impact on the triacylglycerol (TAG)-rich VLDL1 production under lipid-rich conditions. The apoC-III Gln38Lys variant was identified in subjects of Mexican origin with moderate hypertriglyceridemia. We postulated that Gln38Lys (C3QK), being a gain-of-function mutation, promotes hepatic VLDL1 assembly/secretion. To test this hypothesis, we expressed C3QK in McA-RH7777 cells and apoc3-null mice to contrast its effect with WT apoC-III (C3WT). In both model systems, C3QK expression increased the secretion of VLDL1-TAG (by 230%) under lipid-rich conditions. Metabolic labeling experiments with C3QK cells showed an increase in de novo lipogenesis (DNL). Fasting plasma concentration of TAG, cholesterol, cholesteryl ester, and FA were increased in C3QK mice as compared with C3WT mice. Liver of C3QK mice also displayed an increase in DNL and expression of lipogenic genes as compared with that in C3WT mice. These results suggest that C3QK variant is a gain-of-function mutation that can stimulate VLDL1 production, through enhanced DNL.BACKGROUND: Heterozygous loss of function mutations in the KCNK3 gene cause hereditary pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). KCNK3 encodes an acid-sensitive potassium channel, which contributes to the resting potential of human pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells. KCNK3 is widely expressed in the body, and dimerizes with other KCNK3 subunits, or the closely related, acid-sensitive KCNK9 channel.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We engineered homomeric and heterodimeric mutant and nonmutant KCNK3 channels associated with PAH. Using whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology in human pulmonary artery smooth muscle and COS7 cell lines, we determined that homomeric and heterodimeric mutant channels in heterozygous KCNK3 conditions lead to mutation-specific severity of channel dysfunction. Both wildtype and mutant KCNK3 channels were activated by ONO-RS-082 (10 μmol/L), causing cell hyperpolarization. We observed robust gene expression of KCNK3 in healthy and familial PAH patient lungs, but no quantifiable expression of KCNK9, and demonstrated in functional studies that KCNK9 minimizes the impact of select KCNK3 mutations when the 2 channel subunits co-assemble.
CONCLUSIONS: Heterozygous KCNK3 mutations in PAH lead to variable loss of channel function via distinct mechanisms. Homomeric and heterodimeric mutant KCNK3 channels represent novel therapeutic substrates in PAH. Pharmacological and pH-dependent activation of wildtype and mutant KCNK3 channels in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells leads to membrane hyperpolarization. Co-assembly of KCNK3 with KCNK9 subunits may provide protection against KCNK3 loss of function in tissues where both KCNK9 and KCNK3 are expressed, contributing to the lung-specific phenotype observed clinically in patients with PAH because of KCNK3 mutations.Heterozygous loss-of-function (LOF) mutations in the human progranulin gene (GRN) cause frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) by a mechanism of haploinsufficiency. Patients present most frequently with frontotemporal dementia, which is the second most common neurodegenerative dementia at young age. Currently, no disease-modifying therapies are available for these patients. Stimulating GRN protein expression or inhibiting its breakdown is an obvious therapeutic strategy, and is indeed the focus of current preclinical research and clinical trials. Multiple studies have demonstrated the heterogeneity in clinical presentation and wide variability in age of onset in patients carrying a GRN LOF mutation. Recently, this heterogeneity became an opportunity to identify disease modifiers, considering that these might constitute suitable targets for developing disease-modifying or disease-delaying therapies.Although rare, 3p microdeletion cases have been well described in the clinical literature. The clinical phenotype includes; intellectual disability (ID), growth retardation, facial dysmorphism, and cardiac malformations. Advances in chromosome microarray (CMA) testing narrowed the 3p25 critical region to a 124 kb region, and recent Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) studies have suggested that the SETD5 gene contributes significantly to the 3p25 phenotype. Loss-of-Function (LoF) variants in SETD5 are now considered a likely cause of ID. We report here a patient with a frameshift LoF variant in exon 12 of SETD5. This patient has features overlapping with other patients described with LoF SETD5 variants to include; similar facial morphology, feeding difficulties, ID, behavioral abnormalities and leg length discrepancy. In addition, he presents with an aberrant blind ending bronchus. This report adds to publications describing intragenic mutations in SETD5 and supports the assertion that de novo LoF mutations in SETD5 present with an overlapping but distinct phenotype in comparison with 3p25 microdeletion syndromes.PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To describe primary immunodeficiencies caused by gain-of-function (GOF) mutations of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) genes, a group of genetically determined disorders characterized by susceptibility to infections and, in many cases, autoimmune manifestations.
RECENT FINDINGS: GOF mutations affecting STAT1 result in increased STAT tyrosine phosphorylation and secondarily increased response to STAT1-signaling cytokines, such as interferons. In contrast, STAT3 hyperactivity is not usually related to hyperphosphorylation but rather to increased STAT3-mediated transcriptional activity. In both cases, heterozygous STAT1 and STAT3 GOF mutations trigger a distinct set of genes in target cells that lead to abnormal functioning of antimicrobial response and/or autoimmunity and result in autosomal dominant diseases.
SUMMARY: Clinical manifestations of patients with STAT1 GOF are characterized by mucocutaneous candidiasis and recurrent lower tract respiratory infections. In addition, many patients have thyroiditis, type 1 diabetes mellitus, autoimmune cytopenias, cancer or aneurysms. Patients with germline STAT3 GOF mutations have an increased frequency of early-onset multiorgan autoimmunity (i.e. autoimmune enteropathy, type 1 diabetes mellitus, autoimmune interstitial lung disease and autoimmune cytopenias), lymphoproliferation, short stature and, less frequently, severe recurrent infections. Treatment options range from antimicrobial therapy, intravenous or subcutaneous immunoglobulin and immunosuppressive drugs. Some patients with STAT1 GOF disorder have undergone hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, although these have been difficult because of the underlying proinflammatory milieu from the mutation.Mucolipidoses (ML) II and III alpha/beta are lysosomal storage diseases caused by pathogenic mutations in GNPTAB encoding the α⁄β-subunit precursor of GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase. To determine genotype-phenotype correlation and functional analysis of mutant GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase, 13 Brazilian patients clinically and biochemical diagnosed for MLII or III alpha/beta were studied. By sequencing of genomic GNPTAB of the MLII and MLIII alpha/beta patients we identified six novel mutations: p.D76G, p.S385L, p.Q278Kfs*3, p.H588Qfs*27, p.N642Lfs*10 and p.Y1111*. Expression analysis by western blotting and immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that the mutant α⁄β-subunit precursor p.D76G is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum whereas the mutant p.S385L is correctly transported to the cis-Golgi apparatus and proteolytically processed. Both mutations lead to complete loss of GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase activity, consistent with the severe clinical MLII phenotype of the patients. Our study expands the genotypic spectrum of MLII and provides novel insights into structural requirements to ensure GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase activity.Polymorphism in the gene CACNA1C, encoding the pore-forming subunit of Cav1.2 L-type calcium channels, has one of the strongest genetic linkages to schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder: psychopathologies in which serotonin signaling has been implicated. Additionally, a gain-of-function mutation in CACNA1C is responsible for the neurodevelopmental disorder Timothy syndrome that presents with prominent behavioral features on the autism spectrum. Given an emerging role for serotonin in the etiology of autism spectrum disorders (ASD), we investigate the relationship between Cav1.2 and the ascending serotonin system in the Timothy syndrome type 2 (TS2-neo) mouse, which displays behavioral features consistent with the core triad of ASD. We find that TS2-neo mice exhibit enhanced serotonin tissue content and axon innervation of the dorsal striatum, as well as decreased serotonin turnover in the amygdala. These regionally specific alterations are accompanied by an enhanced active coping response during acute stress (forced swim), serotonin neuron Fos activity in the caudal dorsal raphe, and serotonin type 1A receptor-dependent feedback inhibition of the rostral dorsal raphe nuclei. Collectively, these results suggest that the global gain-of-function Cav1.2 mutation associated with Timothy syndrome has pleiotropic effects on the ascending serotonin system including neuroanatomical changes, regional differences in forebrain serotonin metabolism and feedback regulatory control mechanisms within the dorsal raphe. Altered activity of the ascending serotonin system continues to emerge as a common neural signature across several ASD mouse models, and the capacity for Cav1.2 L-type calcium channels to impact both serotonin structure and function has important implications for several neuropsychiatric conditions.DDK, a conserved serine-threonine protein kinase composed of a regulatory subunit, Dbf4, and a catalytic subunit, Cdc7, is essential for DNA replication initiation during S phase of the cell cycle through MCM2-7 helicase phosphorylation. The biological significance of DDK is well characterized, but the full mechanism of how DDK associates with substrates remains unclear. Cdc7 is bound to chromatin in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome throughout the cell cycle, but there is little empirical evidence as to specific Cdc7 binding locations. Using biochemical and genetic techniques, this study investigated the specific localization of Cdc7 on chromatin. The Calling Cards method, using Ty5 retrotransposons as a marker for DNA-protein binding, suggests Cdc7 kinase is preferentially bound to genomic DNA known to replicate early in S phase, including centromeres and origins of replication. We also discovered Cdc7 binding throughout the genome, which may be necessary to initiate other cellular processes, including meiotic recombination and translesion synthesis. A kinase dead Cdc7 point mutation increases the Ty5 retrotransposon integration efficiency and a 55-amino acid C-terminal truncation of Cdc7, unable to bind Dbf4, reduces Cdc7 binding suggesting a requirement for Dbf4 to stabilize Cdc7 on chromatin during S phase. Chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrates that Cdc7 binding near specific origins changes during S phase. Our results suggest a model where Cdc7 is loosely bound to chromatin during G1 At the G1/S transition, Cdc7 binding to chromatin is increased and stabilized, preferentially at sites that may become origins, in order to carry out a variety of cellular processes.Histiocytic sarcoma (HS) is an aggressive malignant neoplasm of dendritic cell origin that is common in certain breeds of dogs. High prevalence of fatal, disseminated HS has been described in Bernese Mountain Dogs (BMDs). Support for genetic predisposition to develop HS has been presented in several studies, but to date, causative genetic events have not been reported. In addition, no driver mutations have been identified in tumours. Recently, E76K gain-of-function mutation in SHP2 encoded by the PTPN11 gene has been described in human histiocytic malignancies. In our study, we identified the PTPN11E76K in HS of BMDs. Amplification of exon 3 of the PTPN11 gene followed by Sanger sequencing was used to detect the mutation and estimate the prevalence in HS from 30 BMDs, 13 Golden Retrievers and 10 other dog breeds. The overall prevalence of PTPN11E76K in HS of BMDs was 36.67% compared with 8.69% in other breeds. No mutation was identified in normal tissues from 10 BMDs with HS that carried the mutation and 12 control dogs with no neoplastic disease, including 6 BMDs. Increased immunoreactivity for AKT, phosphorylated ERK1/2 and phosphorylated AKT in a small subset of BMDs with PTPN11E76K suggests that a gain-of-function might be mediated by the ERK and AKT pathways. These data suggest PTPN11E76K as an important driver mutation of HS in BMDs. This information may not only aid in unravelling the tumourigenic events associated with HS in BMDs, but also help in identifying more promising therapeutic strategies.Heterozygous mutations in KIDINS220 were recently suggested a cause of spastic paraplegia, intellectual disability, nystagmus and obesity. All patients carried terminal nonsense de novo mutations that seemed to escape nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. The mechanism for pathogenicity is yet unexplained, as it seems that heterozygous loss-of-function variants of KIDINS220 are generally well tolerated. We present a consanguineous couple who experienced four pregnancy terminations due to repeated findings in the fetuses comprising enlarged cerebral ventricles and limb contractures. Exome sequencing in two of the aborted fetuses revealed a shared homozygous frameshift variant in exon 24 in KIDINS220. Sanger sequencing of the variant in available family members showed complete segregation with the affection status, resulting in a LOD score of 2.5 under an autozygous inheritance model. mRNA studies revealed destruction of the original splice site, resulting in an out-of-frame transcript and introduction of a premature termination codon in exon 25. Premature termination codons in this position are likely to cause activation of nonsense-mediated mRNA decay and result in complete absence of KIDINS220 protein in individuals homozygous for the variant. The phenotype of the presented fetuses overlaps with findings in functional studies of knockout Kidins220 mice embryos that are non-viable with enlarged cerebral ventricles. The human fetuses also exhibit several similarities to the milder phenotype described in patients with heterozygous KIDINS220 mutations. We hence propose that the identified homozygous loss-of-function variant in KIDINS220 causes the phenotype in the presented fetuses, and that this represents a hitherto undescribed severe autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder.Genome sequencing efforts have identified virtually all of the important mutations in adult myeloid malignancies. More recently, population studies have identified cancer-associated variants in the blood of otherwise healthy individuals as they age, a phenomenon termed clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP). This suggests that these mutations may occur in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) long before any clinical presentation but are not necessarily harbingers of transformation because only a fraction of individuals with CHIP develop hematopoietic pathologies. Delineation between CHIP variants that predispose for disease versus those that are more benign could be used as a prognostic factor to identify individuals at greater risk for transformation. To achieve this, the biological impact of CHIP variants on HSC function must be validated. One variant that has been identified recurrently in CHIP is a gain-of-function missense mutation in the imprinted gene GNAS (Guanine Nucleotide Binding Protein, Alpha Stimulating). In this study, we examined the effect of the GNASR201C variant on HSC function. Ectopic expression of GNASR201C supported transplantable HSC activity and improved lymphoid output in secondary recipients. Because declining lymphoid output is a hallmark of aging, GNASR201C mutations may sustain lymphoid-biased HSCs over time and maintain them in a developmental state favorable for transformation.KEY POINTS: Paramyotonia congenita is a hereditary channelopathy caused by missense mutations in the SCN4A gene, which encodes the α subunit of the human skeletal muscle voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.4. Affected individuals suffered from myotonia and paralysis of muscles, which were aggravated by exposure to cold. We report a three-generation Chinese family with patients presenting paramyotonia congenita and identify a novel N1366S mutation of NaV1.4. Whole-cell electrophysiological recordings of the N1366S channel reveal a gain-of-function change of gating in response to cold. Modelling and molecular dynamic simulation data suggest that an arginine-to-serine substitution at position 1366 increases the distance from N1366 to R1454 and disrupts the hydrogen bond formed between them at low temperature. We demonstrate that N1366S is a disease-causing mutation and that the temperature-sensitive alteration of N1366S channel activity may be responsible for the pronounced paramyotonia congenita symptoms of these patients.
ABSTRACT: Paramyotonia congenita is an autosomal dominant skeletal muscle channelopathy caused by missense mutations in SCN4A, the gene encoding the α subunit of the human skeletal muscle voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.4. We report a three-generation family in which six members present clinical symptoms of paramyotonia congenita characterized by a marked worsening of myotonia by cold and by the presence of clear episodes of paralysis. We identified a novel mutation in SCN4A (Asn1366Ser, N1366S) in all patients in the family but not in healthy relatives or in 500 normal control subjects. Functional analysis of the channel protein expressed in HEK293 cells by whole-cell patch clamp recording revealed that the N1366S mutation led to significant alterations in the gating process of the NaV1.4 channel. The N1366S mutant displayed a cold-induced hyperpolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of activation and a depolarizing shift in fast inactivation, as well as a reduced rate of fast inactivation and accelerated recovery from fast inactivation. In addition, homology modelling and molecular dynamic simulation of N1366S and wild-type NaV1.4 channels indicated that the arginine-to-serine substitution disrupted the hydrogen bond formed between N1366 and R1454. Together, our results suggest that N1366S is a gain-of-function mutation of NaV1.4 at low temperature and the mutation may be responsible for the clinical symptoms of paramyotonia congenita in the affected family and constitute a basis for studies into its pathogenesis.The association between 1p32-p31 contiguous gene deletions and a distinct phenotype that includes anomalies of the corpus callosum, ventriculomegaly, developmental delay, seizures, and dysmorphic features has been long recognized and described. Recently, the observation of overlapping phenotypes in patients with chromosome translocations that disrupt NFIA (Nuclear factor I/A), a gene within this deleted region, and NFIA intragenic deletions has led to the hypothesis that NFIA is a critical gene within this region. The wide application and increasing accessibility of whole exome sequencing (WES) has helped identify new cases to support this hypothesis. Here, we describe four patients with loss-of-function variants in the NFIA gene identified through WES. The clinical presentation of these patients significantly overlaps with the phenotype described in previously reported cases of 1p32-p31 deletion syndrome, NFIA gene disruptions and intragenic NFIA deletions. Our cohort includes a mother and daughter as well as an unrelated individual who share the same nonsense variant (c.205C>T, p.Arg69Ter; NM_001145512.1). We also report a patient with a frameshift NFIA variant (c.159_160dupCC, p.Gln54ProfsTer49). We have compared published cases of 1p32-p31 microdeletion syndrome, translocations resulting in NFIA gene disruption, intragenic deletions, and loss-of-function mutations (including our four patients) to reveal that abnormalities of the corpus callosum, ventriculomegaly/hydrocephalus, macrocephaly, Chiari I malformation, dysmorphic features, developmental delay, hypotonia, and urinary tract defects are common findings. The consistent overlap in clinical presentation provides further evidence of the critical role of NFIA haploinsufficiency in the development of the 1p32-p31 microdeletion syndrome phenotype.Dominant negative mutations in CLCN7, which encodes a homodimeric chloride channel needed for matrix acidification by osteoclasts, cause Albers-Schönberg disease (also known as autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type 2). More than 25 different CLCN7 mutations have been identified in patients affected with Albers-Schönberg disease, but only one mutation (Clcn7G213R) has been introduced in mice to create an animal model of this disease. Here we describe a mouse with a different osteopetrosis-causing mutation (Clcn7F318L). Compared to Clcn7+/+ mice, 12-week-old Clcn7F318L/+ mice have significantly increased trabecular bone volume, consistent with Clcn7F318L acting as a dominant negative mutation. Clcn7F318L/F318L and Clcn7F318L/G213R mice die by 1month of age and resemble Clcn7 knockout mice, which indicate that p.F318L mutant protein is non-functional and p.F318L and p.G213R mutant proteins do not complement one another. Since it has been reported that treatment with interferon gamma (IFN-G) improves bone properties in Clcn7G213R/+ mice, we treated Clcn7F318L/+ mice with IFN-G and observed a decrease in osteoclast number and mineral apposition rate, but no overall improvement in bone properties. Our results suggest that the benefits of IFN-G therapy in patients with Albers-Schönberg disease may be mutation-specific.Plaque psoriasis and pustular psoriasis are overlapping, but distinct, disorders. The therapeutic response to biologics supports the pivotal role of the tumour necrosis alpha (TNF-?)/ interleukin (IL)-23/IL-17/IL-22 axis in the pathogenesis of these disorders. Recently, functional activation of the IL-36 receptor (IL-36R) was discovered to be another driving force in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. This was first highlighted by the discovery that a loss-of-function mutation of the IL-36R antagonist (IL-36Ra) causes pustular psoriasis. Although the TNF-?/IL-23/IL-17/IL-22 axis and the functional activation of IL-36R are fundamentally involved in plaque psoriasis and pustular psoriasis, respectively, the 2 pathways are closely related and mutually reinforced, resulting in full-blown clinical manifestations. This review summarizes current topics on how IL-36 agonists (IL-36?, IL-36?, IL-36?) signal IL-36R, the pathological expression of IL-36 agonists and IL-36Ra in plaque and pustular psoriatic lesions, and the cross-talk between the TNF-?/IL-23/IL-17/IL-22 axis and the functional activation of IL-36R in the epidermal milieu.Chronic and aggressive periodontitis are infectious diseases characterized by the irreversible destruction of periodontal tissues, which is mediated by the host inflammatory immune response triggered by periodontal infection. The chemokine receptor CCR5 play an important role in disease pathogenesis, contributing to pro-inflammatory response and osteoclastogenesis. CCR5Δ32 (rs333) is a loss-of-function mutation in the CCR5 gene, which can potentially modulate the host response and, consequently periodontitis outcome. Thus, we investigated the effect of the CCR5Δ32 mutation over the risk to suffer periodontitis in a cohort of Brazilian patients (total N=699), representative of disease susceptibility (chronic periodontitis, N=197; and aggressive periodontitis, N=91) or resistance (chronic gingivitis, N=193) phenotypes, and healthy subjects (N=218). Additionally, we assayed the influence of CCR5Δ32 in the expression of the biomarkers TNFα, IL-1β, IL-10, IL-6, IFN-γ and T-bet, and key periodontal pathogens P. gingivalis, T. forsythia, and T. denticola. In the association analysis of resistant versus susceptible subjects, CCR5Δ32 mutant allele-carriers proved significantly protected against chronic (OR 0.49; 95% CI 0.29-0.83; p-value 0.01) and aggressive (OR 0.46; 95% CI 0.22-0.94; p-value 0.03) periodontitis. Further, heterozygous subjects exhibited significantly decreased expression of TNFα in periodontal tissues, pointing to a functional effect of the mutation in periodontal tissues during the progression of the disease. Conversely, no significant changes were observed in the presence or quantity of the periodontal pathogens P. gingivalis, T. forsythia, and T. denticola in the subgingival biofilm that could be attributable to the mutant genotype.Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is a highly debilitating and life-threatening genetic vascular disorder arising from endothelial cell (EC) proliferation and hypervascularization, for which no cure exists. Because HHT is caused by loss-of-function mutations in bone morphogenetic protein 9 (BMP9)-ALK1-Smad1/5/8 signaling, interventions aimed at activating this pathway are of therapeutic value. We interrogated the whole-transcriptome in human umbilical vein ECs (HUVECs) and found that ALK1 signaling inhibition was associated with a specific pro-angiogenic gene expression signature, which included a significant elevation of DLL4 expression. By screening the NIH clinical collections of FDA-approved drugs, we identified tacrolimus (FK-506) as the most potent activator of ALK1 signaling in BMP9-challenged C2C12 reporter cells. In HUVECs, tacrolimus activated Smad1/5/8 and opposed the pro-angiogenic gene expression signature associated with ALK1 loss-of-function, by notably reducing Dll4 expression. In these cells, tacrolimus also inhibited Akt and p38 stimulation by vascular endothelial growth factor, a major driver of angiogenesis. In the BMP9/10-immunodepleted postnatal retina-a mouse model of HHT vascular pathology-tacrolimus activated endothelial Smad1/5/8 and prevented the Dll4 overexpression and hypervascularization associated with this model. Finally, tacrolimus stimulated Smad1/5/8 signaling in C2C12 cells expressing BMP9-unresponsive ALK1 HHT mutants and in HHT patient blood outgrowth ECs. Tacrolimus repurposing has therefore therapeutic potential in HHT.Cell Division Cycle 6 (Cdc6) is a component of pre-replicative complex (preRC) forming on DNA replication origins in eukaryotes. Recessive mutations in ORC1, ORC4, ORC6, CDT1 or CDC6 of the preRC in human cause Meier-Gorlin syndrome (MGS) that is characterized by impaired post-natal growth, short stature and microcephaly. However, vertebrate models of MGS have not been reported. Through N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis and Cas9 knockout, we generate several cdc6 mutant lines in zebrafish. Loss-of-function mutations of cdc6, as manifested by cdc6tsu4305 and cdc6tsu7cd mutants, lead to embryonic lethality due to cell cycle arrest at the S phase and extensive apoptosis. Embryos homozygous for a cdc6 hypomorphic mutation, cdc6tsu21cd, develop normally during embryogenesis. Later on, compared with their wild-type (WT) siblings, cdc6tsu21cd mutant fish show growth retardation, and their body weight and length in adulthood are greatly reduced, which resemble human MGS. Surprisingly, cdc6tsu21cd mutant fish become males with a short life and fail to mate with WT females, suggesting defective reproduction. Overexpression of Cdc6 mutant forms, which mimic human CDC6(T323R) mutation found in a MGS patient, in zebrafish cdc6tsu4305 mutant embryos partially represses cell death phenotype, suggesting that the human CDC6(T323R) mutation is a hypomorph. cdc6tsu21cd mutant fish will be useful to detect more tissue defects and develop medical treatment strategies for MGS patients.KCNT1 mutations are gain-of-function mutations in potassium channels resulting in severe infantile epilepsy. Herein we describe 3 infants with malignant migrating partial seizures with KCNT1 mutations accompanied by massive systemic to pulmonary collateral arteries with life-threatening hemoptysis and heart failure.Two sisters from a consanguineous couple were seen in genetics department for facial dysmorphic features and glaucoma. They both had broad foreheads, hypertelorism, megalocorneas, thick eyebrows with synophrys, flat malar regions, broad and bulbous noses, and mild prognathism. Both had glaucoma, younger one also had cataracts and phthisis bulbi. Other findings included bilateral partial cutaneous syndactyly of 2nd and 3rd fingers, history of impacted teeth with dentigerous cyst in the elder one, and intellectual disability (mild and borderline). The sisters were considered to have Elsahy-Waters syndrome. In order to elucidate the underlying molecular cause, sisters and their healthy parents were genotyped by SNP arrays, followed by homozygosity mapping. Homozygous regions were further analyzed by exome sequencing in one affected individual. A homozygous indel variant segregating with the condition was detected in CDH11 (c.1116_1117delinsGATCATCAG, p.(Ile372MetfsTer9)), which was then validated by using Sanger sequencing. CDH11 encodes cadherin 11 (osteo-cadherin) that regulates cell-cell adhesion, cell polarization and migration, as well as osteogenic differentiation. Further experiments revealed that CDH11 expression was decreased in patient-derived fibroblasts as compared to the heterozygous parent and another healthy donor. Immunostaining showed absence of the protein expression in patient fibroblasts. In addition, cell proliferation rate was slow and osteogenic differentiation potential was delayed. We consider that this study reveals loss-of-function mutations in CDH11 as a probable cause of this phenotype. Next generation sequencing in further patients would both prove this gene as causative, and finely delineate this clinical spectrum further contributing in identification of other possibly involved gene(s).TP53 is one of the most commonly mutated genes in human cancers. Unlike other tumor suppressors that are frequently deleted or acquire loss-of-function mutations, the majority of TP53 mutations in tumors are missense substitutions, which lead to the expression of full-length mutant proteins that accumulate in cancer cells and may confer unique gain-of-function (GOF) activities to promote tumorigenic events. Recently, mutant p53 proteins have been shown to mediate metabolic changes as a novel GOF to promote tumor development. There is a strong rationale that the GOF activities, including alterations in cellular metabolism, might vary between the different p53 mutants. Accordingly, the effect of different mutant p53 proteins on cancer cell metabolism is largely unknown. In this study, we have metabolically profiled several individual frequently occurring p53 mutants in cancers, focusing on glycolytic and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation pathways. Our investigation highlights the diversity of different p53 mutants in terms of their effect on metabolism, which might provide a foundation for the development of more effective targeted pharmacological approaches toward variants of mutant p53.Cell division patterning is important to determine body shape in plants. Nuclear auxin signaling mediated by AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR (ARF) transcription factors affects plant growth and development through regulation of cell division, elongation and differentiation. The evolutionary origin of the ARF-mediated pathway dates back to at least the common ancestor of bryophytes and other land plants. The liverwort Marchantia polymorpha has three phylogenetically distinct ARFs: MpARF1, the sole 'activator' ARF; and MpARF2 and MpARF3, two 'repressor' ARFs. Genetic screens for auxin-resistant mutants revealed that loss of MpARF1 function conferred auxin insensitivity. Mparf1 mutants showed reduced auxin-inducible gene expression and various developmental defects, including thallus twisting and gemma malformation. We further investigated the role of MpARF1 in gemma development, which is traceable at the cellular level. In wild-type plants, a gemma initial first undergoes several transverse divisions to generate a single-celled stalk and a gemma proper, followed by rather synchronous longitudinal divisions in the latter. Mparf1 mutants often contained multicelled stalks and showed defects in the execution and timing of the longitudinal divisions. While wild-type gemmae finally generate two meristem notches, Mparf1 gemmae displayed various numbers of ectopic meristems. These results suggest that MpARF1 regulates formative cell divisions and axis formation through auxin responses. The mechanism for activator ARF regulation of pattern formation may be shared in land plants and therefore important for the general acquisition of three-dimensional body plans.The taste receptor type 1 (TAS1R) family of heterotrimeric G protein-coupled receptors participates in monitoring energy and nutrient status. TAS1R member 3 (TAS1R3) is a bi-functional protein that recognizes amino acids such as L-glycine and L-glutamate or sweet molecules such as sucrose and fructose when dimerized with TAS1R member 1 (TAS1R1) or TAS1R member 2 (TAS1R2), respectively. It was recently reported that deletion of TAS1R3 expression in Tas1R3 mutant mice leads to increased cortical bone mass but the underlying cellular mechanism leading to this phenotype remains unclear. Here, we independently corroborate the increased thickness of cortical bone in femurs of 20-week-old male Tas1R3 mutant mice and confirm that Tas1R3 is expressed in the bone environment. Tas1R3 is expressed in undifferentiated bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) in vitro and its expression is maintained during BMP2-induced osteogenic differentiation. However, levels of the bone formation marker procollagen type I N-terminal propeptide (PINP) are unchanged in the serum of 20-week-old Tas1R3 mutant mice as compared to controls. In contrast, levels of the bone resorption marker collagen type I C-telopeptide are reduced greater than 60% in Tas1R3 mutant mice. Consistent with this, Tas1R3 and its putative signaling partner Tas1R2 are expressed in primary osteoclasts and their expression levels positively correlate with differentiation status. Collectively, these findings suggest that high bone mass in Tas1R3 mutant mice is due to uncoupled bone remodeling with reduced osteoclast function and provide rationale for future experiments examining the cell-type-dependent role for TAS1R family members in nutrient sensing in postnatal bone remodeling.Llama, the most numerous domestic camelid in Argentina, has good fiber-production ability. Although a few genes related to other productive traits have been characterized, the molecular genetic basis of fiber growth control in camelids is still poorly understood. Fibroblast growth factor 5 (FGF5) is a secreted signaling protein that controls hair growth in humans and other mammals. Mutations in the FGF5 gene have been associated with long-hair phenotypes in several species. Here, we sequenced the llama FGF5 gene, which consists of three exons encoding 813 bp. cDNA analysis from hair follicles revealed the expression of two FGF5 alternative spliced transcripts, in one of which exon 2 is absent. DNA variation analysis showed four polymorphisms in the coding region: a synonymous SNP (c.210A>G), a single base deletion (c.348delA), a 12-bp insertion (c.351_352insCATATAACATAG) and a non-sense mutation (c.499C>T). The deletion was always found together with the insertion forming a haplotype and producing a putative truncated protein of 123 amino acids. The c.499C>T mutation also leads to a premature stop codon at position 168. In both cases, critical functional domains of FGF5, including one heparin binding site, are lost. All animals analyzed were homozygous for one of the deleterious mutations or compound heterozygous for both (i.e. c.348delA, c.351_352insCATATAACATAG/c.499T). Sequencing of guanaco samples showed that the FGF5 gene encodes a full-length 270-amino acid protein. These results suggest that FGF5 is likely functional in short-haired wild species and non-functional in the domestic fiber-producing species, the llama.Loss-of-function mutations in the X-linked gene FLNA can lead to abnormal neuronal migration, vascular and cardiac defects, and congenital intestinal pseudo-obstruction (CIPO), the latter characterized by anomalous intestinal smooth muscle layering. Survival in male hemizygotes for such mutations is dependent on retention of residual FLNA function but it is unclear why a subgroup of males with mutations in the 5' end of the gene can present with CIPO alone. Here, we demonstrate evidence for the presence of two FLNA isoforms differing by 28 residues at the N-terminus initiated at ATG+1 and ATG+82 . A male with CIPO (c.18_19del) exclusively expressed FLNA ATG+82 , implicating the longer protein isoform (ATG+1 ) in smooth muscle development. In contrast, mutations leading to reduction of both isoforms are associated with compound phenotypes affecting the brain, heart, and intestine. RNA-seq data revealed three distinct transcription start sites, two of which produce a protein isoform utilizing ATG+1 while the third utilizes ATG+82 . Transcripts sponsoring translational initiation at ATG+1 predominate in intestinal smooth muscle, and are more abundant compared with the level measured in fibroblasts. Together these observations describe a new mechanism of tissue-specific regulation of FLNA that could reflect the differing mechanical requirements of these cell types during development.S-RNase based gametophytic self-incompatibility (SI) is a widespread prezygotic reproductive barrier in flowering plants. In the Solanaceae, Plantaginaceae and Rosaceae gametophytic SI is controlled by the pistil-specific S-RNases and the pollen S-locus F-box proteins but non-S-specific factors, namely modifiers, are also required. In apricot, Prunus armeniaca (Rosaceae), we previously mapped two pollen-part mutations that confer self-compatibility in cultivars Canino and Katy at the distal end of chromosome 3 (M-locus) unlinked to the S-locus. Here, we used high-resolution mapping to identify the M-locus with an ~134 kb segment containing ParM-1-16 genes. Gene expression analysis identified four genes preferentially expressed in anthers as modifier gene candidates, ParM-6, -7, -9 and -14. Variant calling of WGS Illumina data from Canino, Katy, and 10 self-incompatible cultivars detected a 358 bp miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE) insertion in ParM-7 shared only by self-compatible apricots, supporting ParM-7 as strong candidate gene required for SI. ParM-7 encodes a disulfide bond A-like oxidoreductase protein, which we named ParMDO. The MITE insertion truncates the ParMDO ORF and produces a loss of SI function, suggesting that pollen rejection in Prunus is dependent on redox regulation. Based on phylogentic analyses we also suggest that ParMDO may have originated from a tandem duplication followed by subfunctionalization and pollen-specific expression.Engagement of integrins by the extracellular matrix initiates signaling cascades that drive a variety of cellular functions, including neuronal migration and axonal pathfinding in the brain. Multiple lines of evidence link the ITGB3 gene encoding the integrin β3 subunit with the serotonin (5-HT) system, likely via its modulation of the 5-HT transporter (SERT). The ITGB3 coding polymorphism Leu33Pro (rs5918, PlA2) produces hyperactive αvβ3 receptors that influence whole-blood 5-HT levels and may influence the risk for autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Using a phenome-wide scan of psychiatric diagnoses, we found significant, male-specific associations between the Pro33 allele and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and ASDs. Here, we used knock-in (KI) mice expressing an Itgb3 variant that phenocopies the human Pro33 variant to elucidate the consequences of constitutively enhanced αvβ3 signaling to the 5-HT system in the brain. KI mice displayed deficits in multiple behaviors, including anxiety, repetitive, and social behaviors. Anatomical studies revealed a significant decrease in 5-HT synapses in the midbrain, accompanied by decreases in SERT activity and reduced localization of SERTs to integrin adhesion complexes in synapses of KI mice. Inhibition of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) rescued SERT function in synapses of KI mice, demonstrating that constitutive active FAK signaling downstream of the Pro32Pro33 integrin αvβ3 suppresses SERT activity. Our studies identify a complex regulation of 5-HT homeostasis and behaviors by integrin αvβ3, revealing an important role for integrins in modulating risk for neuropsychiatric disorders.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The integrin β3 Leu33Pro coding polymorphism has been associated with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) within a subgroup of patients with elevated blood 5-HT levels, linking integrin β3, 5-HT, and ASD risk. We capitalized on these interactions to demonstrate that the Pro33 coding variation in the murine integrin β3 recapitulates the sex-dependent neurochemical and behavioral attributes of ASD. Using state-of-the-art techniques, we show that presynaptic 5-HT function is altered in these mice, and that the localization of 5-HT transporters to specific compartments within the synapse, disrupted by the integrin β3 Pro33 mutation, is critical for appropriate reuptake of 5-HT. Our studies provide fundamental insight into the genetic network regulating 5-HT neurotransmission in the CNS that is also associated with ASD risk.Loss-of-function caused by mutations in the parkin gene (PARK2) lead to early-onset familial Parkinson's disease. Recently, mechanistic studies proved the ability of parkin in regulating mitochondria homeostasis and microtubule (MT) stability. Looking at these systems during aging of PARK2 knockout mice, we found that loss of parkin induced an accelerated (over)acetylation of MT system both in dopaminergic neuron cell bodies and fibers, localized in the substantia nigra and corpus striatum, respectively. Interestingly, in PARK2 knockout mice, changes of MT stability preceded the alteration of mitochondria transport. Moreover, in-cell experiments confirmed that loss of parkin affects mitochondria mobility and showed that this defect depends on MT system as it is rescued by paclitaxel, a well-known MT-targeted agent. Furthermore, both in PC12 neuronal cells and in patients' induced pluripotent stem cell-derived midbrain neurons, we observed that parkin deficiencies cause the fragmentation of stable MTs. Therefore, we suggest that parkin acts as a regulator of MT system during neuronal aging, and we endorse the hypothesis that MT dysfunction may be crucial in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized pathologically by the selective loss of substantia nigra (SN) dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons. Recent evidence has suggested a role of LRRK2, linked to the most frequent familial PD, in regulating synaptic vesicle (SV) trafficking. However, the mechanism whereby LRRK2 mutants contribute to nigral vulnerability remains unclear. Here we show that the most common PD mutation LRRK2 G2019S impairs SV endocytosis in ventral midbrain (MB) neurons, including DA neurons, and the slowed endocytosis can be rescued by inhibition of LRRK2 kinase activity. A similar endocytic defect, however, was not observed in LRRK2 mutant neurons from the neocortex (hereafter, cortical neurons) or the hippocampus, suggesting a brain region-specific vulnerability to the G2019S mutation. Additionally, we found MB-specific impairment of SV endocytosis in neurons carrying heterozygous deletion of SYNJ1 (PARK20), a gene that is associated with recessive Parkinsonism. Combining SYNJ1+/- and LRRK2 G2019S does not exacerbate SV endocytosis but impairs sustained exocytosis in MB neurons and alters specific motor functions of 1-year-old male mice. Interestingly, we show that LRRK2 directly phosphorylates synaptojanin1 in vitro, resulting in the disruption of endophilin-synaptojanin1 interaction required for SV endocytosis. Our work suggests a merge of LRRK2 and SYNJ1 pathogenic pathways in deregulating SV trafficking in MB neurons as an underlying molecular mechanism of early PD pathogenesis.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Understanding midbrain dopaminergic (DAergic) neuron-selective vulnerability in PD is essential for the development of targeted therapeutics. We report, for the first time, a nerve terminal impairment in SV trafficking selectively in MB neurons but not cortical neurons caused by two PARK genes: LRRK2 (PARK8) and SYNJ1 (PARK20). We demonstrate that the enhanced kinase activity resulting from the most frequent G2019S mutation in LRRK2 is the key to this impairment. We provide evidence suggesting that LRRK2 G2019S and SYNJ1 loss of function share a similar pathogenic pathway in deregulating DAergic neuron SV endocytosis and that they play additive roles in facilitating each other's pathogenic functions in PD.Various evidence has revealed that mutations in p53 exert activities that go beyond simply inactivation of wildtype functions but rather elicits downstream interactions that promote malignancy described as mutant p53 gain-of-function (GOF). Here we report the first account of the dynamics of mutation-induced structural transition of native p53 to an aberrant gain-of-function state, studying the wildtype (WT) and high incidence contact (R273C) and structural (R175H) mutant p53 (mutp53) through molecular dynamics simulation. Result analysis revealed that both mutants exhibited structural distortion and reduced flexibility, indicative of rigidity and kinetic stability. In addition, surface analysis revealed an increase in the accessible surface area in the p53 mutants. This suggests that the GOF transition involves protein unfolding and exposure of buried hydrophobic surface essential for interaction with HSF-1 oncogenic partner and wildtype p63, and p73 homologs. Further validation revealed binding cavities, similar in the mutants but dissimilar to the WT. Taken together, this study complements experimental findings and reveals the interplay between mutation-induced structural distortion, loss of flexibility, rigidity, enhanced stability, protein unfolding and ultimately, exposure of binding surfaces as conformational attributes that characterize mutP53 structure-GOF activities. This insight is, therefore, of great importance as it opens up a novel therapeutic approach toward the structure based targeting of mutP53 oncogenic involvement beyond wildtype inactivation. Furthermore, "exposed" binding site information obtained from this study can be explored for structure-based design of substances best described as "destabilizers" to disrupt the GOF interaction of mutp53.Genetic generalized epilepsy (GGE) is a common epilepsy syndrome that encompasses seizure disorders characterized by spike-and-wave discharges (SWDs). Pacemaker hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channels (HCN) are considered integral to SWD genesis, making them an ideal gene candidate for GGE. We identified HCN2 missense variants from a large cohort of 585 GGE patients, recruited by the Epilepsy Phenome-Genome Project (EPGP), and performed functional analysis using two-electrode voltage clamp recordings from Xenopus oocytes. The p.S632W variant was identified in a patient with idiopathic photosensitive occipital epilepsy and segregated in the family. This variant was also independently identified in an unrelated patient with childhood absence seizures from a European cohort of 238 familial GGE cases. The p.V246M variant was identified in a patient with photo-sensitive GGE and his father diagnosed with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. Functional studies revealed that both p.S632W and p.V246M had an identical functional impact including a depolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of activation that is consistent with a gain-of-function. In contrast, no biophysical changes resulted from the introduction of common population variants, p.E280K and p.A705T, and the p.R756C variant from EPGP that did not segregate with disease. Our data suggest that HCN2 variants can confer susceptibility to GGE via a gain-of-function mechanism.BACKGROUND: Increased oxidative stress and resulting inflammation has been emphasized as a factor in the pathogenesis of many diseases including psoriasis. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) protect against oxidative stress, inflammation, and genotoxicity. Polymorphisms in the GST genes may lead to an imbalance in pro- and antioxidant systems resulting in the increased production of reactive oxygen species that could influence the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
AIM: The aim of this study was to investigate the association between GSTs (GSTM1 and GSTT1) gene polymorphism in patients with chronic plaque psoriasis as a factor in the susceptibility and development of psoriasis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We assessed 128 patients with psoriasis and 250 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood by the phenol chloroform method. The null GSTT1 and GSTM1 genotypes were identified by multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method.
RESULTS: The null genotype of GSTM1 and GSTT1 was seen in 45.3% and 40.6% in psoriasis patients whereas in the controls it was 34.4% and 20.0%, respectively. A significant association was seen between the null alleles of the GSTT1 (OR = 2.74) and GSTM1 (OR = 1.58) alone or in combination with tobacco use (P < 0.001) and psoriasis risk. The presence of both null genotypes of GSTM1 and GSTT1 further increased the risk of psoriasis (OR = 3.52) when compared with the positive genotypes of GSTM1 and GSTT1.
LIMITATIONS: A major limitation of this study was the small sample size. A large epidemiological study is necessary to confirm these findings.
CONCLUSIONS: The null genotype of GSTT1 is a strong predisposing factor for psoriasis in North India.The nitrogen-fixing symbiosis of legumes and Rhizobium bacteria is established by complex interactions between the two symbiotic partners. Legume Fix- mutants form apparently normal nodules with endosymbiotic rhizobia but fail to induce rhizobial nitrogen fixation. These mutants are useful for identifying the legume genes involved in the interactions essential for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. We describe here a Fix- mutant of Lotus japonicus, apn1, which showed a very specific symbiotic phenotype. It formed ineffective nodules when inoculated with the Mesorhizobium loti strain TONO. In these nodules, infected cells disintegrated and successively became necrotic, indicating premature senescence typical of Fix- mutants. However, it formed effective nodules when inoculated with the M. loti strain MAFF303099. Among nine different M. loti strains tested, four formed ineffective nodules and five formed effective nodules on apn1 roots. The identified causal gene, ASPARTIC PEPTIDASE NODULE-INDUCED 1 (LjAPN1), encodes a nepenthesin-type aspartic peptidase. The well characterized Arabidopsis aspartic peptidase CDR1 could complement the strain-specific Fix- phenotype of apn1. LjAPN1 is a typical late nodulin; its gene expression was exclusively induced during nodule development. LjAPN1 was most abundantly expressed in the infected cells in the nodules. Our findings indicate that LjAPN1 is required for the development and persistence of functional (nitrogen-fixing) symbiosis in a rhizobial strain-dependent manner, and thus determines compatibility between M. loti and L. japonicus at the level of nitrogen fixation.Null-mutations which cause loss of function of the gene encoding filaggrin (FLG) have been strongly linked to the
development of atopic disorders, predominantly atopic eczema/dermatitis syndrome (AEDS). Filaggrin plays a key role in
epidermal barrier function by upholding epidermal structure and moisturization. Up to now, around 40 variants of FLG null-mutations
have been genotyped among different world populations. FLG null-mutations are present in up to 10% of the
Caucasian population in Western Europe and North America, with R05X and 2282del4 as the most common null-mutations.
Epidemiological studies conducted in Europe indicate a latitude dependent distribution of common FLG null-mutations
with a decreasing north-south gradient of R501X and 2282del4 mutation frequencies. FLG null-mutation carriers are prone
to develop unspecific skin symptoms related to atopic and non-atopic skin disorders due to their defect of epidermal
barrier function, which allows greater skin penetration of various hazards. Epidemiological studies indicate an association
of FLG null-mutations with AEDS, whereas results regarding an association of FLG null-mutations with sensitization to
common inhalant allergens and development of rhinitis and asthma are incoherent. A study conducted in Croatia found a
low frequency of FLG null-mutations in general population (2.6%) and did not confirm FLG null-mutations as an etiological
factor for atopy and atopic disease in the studied population.Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) and FGF receptors (FGFRs) are known for their potent effects on cell proliferation/differentiation and cortical patterning in the developing brain. However, little is known regarding the roles of FGFs/FGFRs in cortical circuit formation. Here we show that Fgfr1/2/3 and Fgf7/9/10/22 mRNAs are expressed in the developing primary somatosensory (S1) barrel cortex. Barrel cortex layer IV spiny stellate cells (bSCs) are the primary recipients of ascending sensory information via thalamocortical axons (TCAs). Detail quantification revealed distinctive phases for bSC dendritogenesis: orienting dendrites toward TCAs, adding de novo dendritic segments, and elongating dendritic length, while maintaining dendritic patterns. Deleting Fgfr1/2/3 in bSCs had minimal impact on dendritic polarity but transiently increased the number of dendritic segments. However, 6 d later, FGFR1/2/3 loss of function reduced dendritic branch numbers. These data suggest that FGFs/FGFRs have a role in stabilizing dendritic patterning. Depolarization of cultured mouse cortical neurons upregulated the levels of several Fgf/Fgfr mRNAs within 2 h. In vivo, within 6 h of systemic kainic acid administration at postnatal day 6, mRNA levels of Fgf9, Fgf10, Fgfr2c, and Fgfr3b in S1 cortices were enhanced, and this was accompanied by exuberant dendritogenesis of bSCs by 24 h. Deleting Fgfr1/2/3 abolished kainic acid-induced bSC dendritic overgrowth. Finally, FGF9/10 gain of function also resulted in extensive dendritogenesis. Together, our data suggest that FGFs/FGFRs can be regulated by glutamate transmission to modulate/stabilize bSC dendritic complexity. Both male and female mice were used for our study.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Glutamatergic transmission plays critical roles in cortical circuit formation. Its dysregulation has been proposed as a core factor in the etiology of many neurological diseases. We found that excessive glutamate transmission upregulated mRNA expression of Fgfrs and their ligands Fgfs Deleting Fgfr1/2/3 not only impaired bSC dendritogenesis but also abolished glutamate transmission-induced dendritic overgrowth. Overexpressing FGF9 or FGF10 in cortical glutamatergic neurons results in excessive dendritic outgrowth within 24 h, resembling the changes induced by excessive glutamate transmission. Our findings provide strong evidence for the physiological role of fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) and FGF receptors (FGFRs) in establishing and maintaining cortical circuits. Perturbing the expression levels of FGFs/FGFRs by excessive glutamatergic neurotransmission could lead to abnormal neuronal circuits, which may contribute to neurological and psychiatric disease.The p53 gene contains homozygous mutations in ~50-60% of human cancers. About 90% of these mutations encode missense mutant proteins that span ~190 different codons localized in the DNA-binding domain of the gene and protein. These mutations produce a protein with a reduced capacity to bind to a specific DNA sequence that regulates the p53 transcriptional pathway. Eight of these mutations are localized in codons that account for ~28% of the total p53 mutations and these alleles appear to be selected for preferentially in human cancers of many tissue types. This article explores the question 'Why are there hotspot mutations in the p53 gene in human cancers?' Four possible reasons for this are considered; (1) the hotspot mutant alleles produce a protein that has a highly altered structure, (2) environmental mutagens produce allele-specific changes in the p53 gene, (3) these mutations arise at selected sites in the gene due to a specific DNA sequence, such as a methylated cytosine residue in a CpG dinucleotide, which has a higher mutation rate changing C to T nucleotides, (4) along with the observed change in mutant p53 proteins, which produce a loss of function (DNA binding and transcription), some mutant proteins have an allele-specific gain of function that promotes cancer. Evidence is presented that demonstrates the first three possibilities all contribute some property to this list of hotspot mutations. The fourth possibility remains to be tested.Mutant p53 proteins impart changes in cellular behavior and function through interactions with proteins that alter gene expression. The milieu of intracellular proteins available to interact with mutant p53 is context specific and changes with disease, cell type, and environmental conditions. Varying conformations of mutant p53 largely dictate protein-protein interactions as different point mutations within protein-coding regions greatly alter the extent and array of gain-of-function (GOF) activities. Given such variables, how can knowledge regarding p53 missense mutations be translated into predicting or altering biologic activity for therapy? How may knowledge regarding mutant p53 functions within certain disease contexts be harnessed to blunt or ablate mutant p53 GOF for therapy? In this article, we review known proteins that interact with mutant p53 and result in the activation of genes that contribute to p53 GOF with particular emphasis on context dependency and an evolving appreciation of GOF mechanisms.mTOR pathway inhibitors are important drugs for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). However, no valid predictive markers have been identified to guide treatment selection and identify patients who are sensitive to these drugs. Mutations activating the mTOR pathway have been suggested to predict response; however, their predictive value is still unclear. Here, we present the genomic and functional characterization of a patient with metastatic clear cell RCC (ccRCC) who experienced a partial response to temsirolimus after a poor response to 2 previous lines of treatment. At the time of publication, the patient was disease-free 8 years after temsirolimus treatment. Multiregion whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 3 regions of the primary tumor, 1 metastasis, and blood revealed tumor mutations in driver genes in ccRCC: a missense mutation in VHL (p.W88L), a loss-of-function mutation in BAP1 (p.E454Rfs*15), and a novel missense mutation in MTOR (p.Y1974H). The MTOR mutation was present in all tumor regions, with similar allele frequency as the VHL mutation, and in vitro functional assessment of the MTOR variant demonstrated that it increased mTORC1 activity. Consistently, immunohistochemistry in the tumor samples demonstrated increased levels of phospho-S6. In conclusion, multiregion WES identified a novel MTOR mutation acquired early during tumor development as the event leading to a high sensitivity to temsirolimus treatment. This study supports tumor multiregion sequencing to detect truncal mutations in the mTOR pathway to identify patients sensitive to mTOR inhibitors.Immune evasion is a well-recognized hallmark of cancer and recent studies with immunotherapy agents have suggested that tumors with increased numbers of neoantigens elicit greater immune responses. We hypothesized that the immune system presents a common selective pressure on high mutation burden tumors and therefore immune evasion mutations would be enriched in high mutation burden tumors. The JAK family of kinases is required for the signaling of a host of immune modulators in tumor, stromal, and immune cells. Therefore, we analyzed alterations in this family for the hypothesized signature of an immune evasion mutation. Here, we searched a database of 61,704 unique solid tumors for alterations in the JAK family kinases (JAK1/2/3, TYK2). We used The Cancer Genome Atlas and Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia data to confirm and extend our findings by analyzing gene expression patterns. Recurrent frameshift mutations in JAK1 were associated with high mutation burden and microsatellite instability. These mutations occurred in multiple tumor types including endometrial, colorectal, stomach, and prostate carcinomas. Analyzing gene expression signatures in endometrial and stomach adenocarcinomas revealed that tumors with a JAK1 frameshift exhibited reduced expression of interferon response signatures and multiple anti-tumor immune signatures. Importantly, endometrial cancer cell lines exhibited similar gene expression changes that were expected to be tumor cell intrinsic (e.g. interferon response) but not those expected to be tumor cell extrinsic (e.g. NK cells). From these data, we derive two primary conclusions: 1) JAK1 frameshifts are loss of function alterations that represent a potential pan-cancer adaptation to immune responses against tumors with microsatellite instability; 2) The mechanism by which JAK1 loss of function contributes to tumor immune evasion is likely associated with loss of the JAK1-mediated interferon response.Mutations in the human TMEM16E (ANO5) gene are associated both with the bone disease gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia (GDD; OMIM: 166260) and muscle dystrophies (OMIM: 611307, 613319). However, the physiological function of TMEM16E has remained unclear. We show here that human TMEM16E, when overexpressed in mammalian cell lines, displayed partial plasma membrane localization and gave rise to phospholipid scrambling (PLS) as well as non-selective ionic currents with slow time-dependent activation at highly depolarized membrane potentials. While the activity of wild-type TMEM16E depended on elevated cytosolic Ca2+ levels, a mutant form carrying the GDD-causing T513I substitution showed PLS and large time-dependent ion currents even at low cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations. Contrarily, mutation of the homologous position in the Ca2+-activated Cl- channel TMEM16B paralog hardly affected its function. In summary, these data provide the first direct demonstration of Ca2+-dependent PLS activity for TMEM16E and suggest a gain-of-function phenotype related to a GDD mutation.Legionella pneumophila is the causative agent of a severe pneumonia called Legionnaires' disease. A single strain of L. pneumophila encodes a repertoire of over 300 different effector proteins that are delivered into host cells by the Dot/Icm type IV secretion system during infection. The large number of L. pneumophila effectors has been a limiting factor in assessing the importance of individual effectors for virulence. Here, a transposon insertion sequencing technology called INSeq was used to analyze replication of a pool of effector mutants in parallel both in a mouse model of infection and in cultured host cells. Loss-of-function mutations in genes encoding effector proteins resulted in host-specific or broad virulence phenotypes. Screen results were validated for several effector mutants displaying different virulence phenotypes using genetic complementation studies and infection assays. Specifically, loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding LegC4 resulted in enhanced L. pneumophila in the lungs of infected mice but not within cultured host cells, which indicates LegC4 augments bacterial clearance by the host immune system. The effector proteins RavY and Lpg2505 were important for efficient replication within both mammalian and protozoan hosts. Further analysis of Lpg2505 revealed that this protein functions as a metaeffector that counteracts host cytotoxicity displayed by the effector protein SidI. Thus, this study identified a large cohort of effectors that contribute to L. pneumophila virulence positively or negatively and has demonstrated regulation of effector protein activities by cognate metaeffectors as being critical for host pathogenesis.Rare fully penetrant mutations in AKT2 are an established cause of monogenic disorders of glucose metabolism. Recently, a novel partial loss-of-function AKT2 coding variant (p.Pro50Thr) was identified that is nearly specific to Finns (frequency 1.1%), with the low-frequency allele associated with an increase in fasting plasma insulin level and risk of type 2 diabetes. The effects of the p.Pro50Thr AKT2 variant (p.P50T/AKT2) on insulin-stimulated glucose uptake (GU) in the whole body and in different tissues have not previously been investigated. We identified carriers (N = 20) and matched noncarriers (N = 25) for this allele in the population-based Metabolic Syndrome in Men (METSIM)study and invited these individuals back for positron emission tomography study with [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose during euglycemic hyperinsulinemia. When we compared p.P50T/AKT2 carriers to noncarriers, we found a 39.4% reduction in whole-body GU (P = 0.006) and a 55.6% increase in the rate of endogenous glucose production (P = 0.038). We found significant reductions in GU in multiple tissues-skeletal muscle (36.4%), liver (16.1%), brown adipose (29.7%), and bone marrow (32.9%)-and increases of 16.8-19.1% in seven tested brain regions. These data demonstrate that the p.P50T substitution of AKT2 influences insulin-mediated GU in multiple insulin-sensitive tissues and may explain, at least in part, the increased risk of type 2 diabetes in p.P50T/AKT2 carriers.TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) loss-of-function (LoF) mutations are known to cause frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), often combined with memory deficits early in the disease course. We performed targeted resequencing of TBK1 in 1253 early onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) patients from 8 European countries to investigate whether pathogenic TBK1 mutations are enriched among patients with clinical diagnosis of EOAD. Variant frequencies were compared against 2117 origin-matched controls. We identified only 1 LoF mutation (p.Thr79del) in a patient clinically diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and a positive family history of ALS. We did not observe enrichment of rare variants in EOAD patients compared to controls, nor of rare variants affecting NFκB induction. Of 3 common coding variants, rs7486100 showed evidence of association (OR 1.46 [95% CI 1.13-1.9]; p-value 0.01). Homozygous carriers of the risk allele showed reduced expression of TBK1 (p-value 0.03). Our findings are not indicative of a significant role for TBK1 mutations in EOAD. The association between common variants in TBK1, disease risk and reduced TBK1 expression warrants follow-up in FTD/ALS cohorts.Considering its role in inflammation and recently described "alternative" roles in epithelial homeostasis and Th1/Th2 balance, we hypothesize that inflammasome genetics could contribute to the development of asthma. Selected functional polymorphisms in inflammasome genes are evaluated in a cohort of asthmatic children and their families. Gain-of-function NLRP1 variants rs11651270, rs12150220 and rs2670660 resulted significantly associated to asthma in trios (TDT) analysis; and rs11651270 and rs2670660 also with asthma severity and total IgE level in asthmatic children. NLRP1 activators in humans are still unknown, however we hypothesized that individuals with gain-of-function SNPs in NLRP1 could be more prone in activating inflammasome in the presence of asthma-related cell stressors (i.e. ER stress or ROS), and this activation contribute to exacerbate inflammatory response and asthma development. Gain-of-function IL1A rs17561 resulted significantly associated with a reduced pulmonary capacity in asthmatic children. IL18 rs5744256 which lead to lower serum level of IL-18 appeared to be associated to a worse response to bronchodilators. Concluding, this work provides evidences about the contribution of inflammasome genetics in the development of paediatric asthma, both considering its inflammatory role in alveolar macrophages (i.e.: NLRP1) or its homeostatic role in lung epithelial cells (i.e.: IL1A, IL18).We report two unrelated patients with Pierre Robin sequence (PRS) and a strikingly similar combination of associated features. Whole exome sequencing was performed for both patients. No single gene containing likely pathogenic point mutations in both patients could be identified, but the finding of an essential splice site mutation in mediator complex subunit 13 like (MED13L) in one patient prompted the investigation of copy number variants in MED13L in the other, leading to the identification of an intragenic deletion. Disruption of MED13L, encoding a component of the Mediator complex, is increasingly recognized as the cause of an intellectual disability syndrome with associated facial dysmorphism. Our findings suggest that MED13L-related disorders are a possible differential diagnosis for syndromic PRS.Patients with short QT syndrome (SQTS) may present with syncope, ventricular fibrillation or sudden cardiac death. Six SQTS susceptibility genes, encoding cation channels, explain <25% of SQTS cases. Here we identify a missense mutation in the anion exchanger (AE3)-encoding SLC4A3 gene in two unrelated families with SQTS. The mutation causes reduced surface expression of AE3 and reduced membrane bicarbonate transport. Slc4a3 knockdown in zebrafish causes increased cardiac pHi, short QTc, and reduced systolic duration, which is rescued by wildtype but not mutated SLC4A3. Mechanistic analyses suggest that an increase in pHi and decrease in [Cl-]i shortened the action potential duration. However, other mechanisms may also play a role. Altered anion transport represents a mechanism for development of arrhythmia and may provide new therapeutic possibilities.Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a metabolic disorder that leads primarily to premature cardiovascular diseases, the main cause of mortality in Saudi Arabia (SA). FH is underreported and underdiagnosed in SA with statistical evidence of high expected prevalence in such a consanguineous community. Lacking knowledge of which and how these alterations are actually impacting lipid metabolism is one of the main reasons why FH is insufficiently diagnosed in the region. The aim of this study was to develop a fast prediction approach using an integrated bioinformatics method for future screening of the potential causative variants from national registries. A total of 21 variants were detected with majority rate in LDLR (81%). Variants were classified based on the type of mutation. Missense variants resulting in amino acid changes, c.1429G>A (p.D477N), c.1474G>A (p.D492N), c.1731G>T (p.W577C), and c.1783C>T (p.R595W) in LDLR gene, in addition to c.9835A>G (p.S3279G) in APOB, were shown to be deleterious by concordant analysis. Furthermore, functional interaction deformities showed a significant loss and gain of energies in the mutated proteins. These findings will help in distinguishing the most harmful mutations needed to be screened for clinically diagnosed FH patients in SA. Such computational research is necessary to avoid time consumption and the usage of expensive biological experiments. This can be a fast track to facilitate the future filtering and screening of causative mutations from national registries.AIM: Pseudomonas aeruginosa is one of the most clinically important opportunistic pathogen in humans. The aim of the project was to study effects of HtpG on the selected virulence factors responsible for pathogenesis and biofilm formation of P. aeruginosa.
METHODOLOGY: By characterizing a htpG null mutant of P. aeruginosa, we have identified the role of HtpG in the production of selected factors.
RESULTS: We showed that ΔhtpG mutant affects many physiological processes containing: decreased activity of the LasA protease, reduction of biofilm formation, decreased motility, and diminished amount of rhamnolipids and pyoverdine/pyocyanin. These defects were most evident when the ΔhtpG strain was cultured at 42°C.
CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate the unexplored role of HtpG in the pathogenicity of P. aeruginosa, and indicate potential targets for antibacterial therapeutics. [Formula: see text].Variants in KMT2A, encoding the histone methyltransferase KMT2A, are a growing cause of intellectual disability (ID). Up to now, the majority of KMT2A variants are non-sense and frameshift variants causing a typical form of Wiedemann-Steiner syndrome. We studied KMT2A gene in a cohort of 200 patients with unexplained syndromic and non-syndromic ID and identified four novel variants, one splice and three missense variants, possibly deleterious. We used primary cells from the patients and molecular approaches to determine the deleterious effects of those variants on KMT2A expression and function. For the putative splice variant c.11322-1G>A, we showed that it led to only one nucleotide deletion and loss of the C-terminal part of the protein. For two studied KMT2A missense variants, c.3460C>T (p.(Arg1154Trp)) and c.8558T>G (p.(Met2853Arg)), located at the cysteine-rich CXXC domain and the transactivation domain of the protein, respectively, we found altered KMT2A target genes expression in patient's fibroblasts compared to controls. Furthermore, we found a disturbed subcellular distribution of KMT2A for the c.3460C>T mutant. Taken together, our results demonstrated the deleterious impact of the splice variant and of the missense variants located at two different functional domains and suggested reduction of KMT2A function as the disease-causing mechanism.The SOX10 gene plays a vital role in neural crest cell development and migration. Abnormalities in SOX10 are associated with Waardenburg syndrome Types II and IV, and these patients have recognizable clinical features. This case report highlights the first ever reported homozygous loss of function of the SOX10 gene in a human. This deletion is correlated using family history, prenatal ultrasound, microarray analysis of amniotic fluid, and ultimately, a medical autopsy examination to further elucidate phenotypic effects of this genetic variation. Incorporating the use of molecular pathology into the autopsy examination of fetuses with suspected congenital anomalies is vital for appropriate family counseling, and with the ability to use formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissues, has become a practical approach in autopsy pathology.Congenital heart defect (CHD) is the most common type of birth defect in humans and a leading cause of infant morbidity and mortality. Previous studies have demonstrated that genetic defects play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of CHD. However, the genetic basis of CHD remains poorly understood due to substantial genetic heterogeneity. In this study, the coding exons and splicing boundaries of the NR2F2 gene, which encodes a pleiotropic transcription factor required for normal cardiovascular development, were sequenced in 168 unrelated patients with CHD, and a novel mutation (c.247G > T, equivalent to p.G83X) was detected in a patient with double outlet right ventricle as well as ventricular septal defect. Genetic scanning of the mutation carrier's relatives available showed that the mutation was present in all affected family members but absent in unaffected family members. Analysis of the index patient's pedigree displayed that the mutation co-segregated with CHD, which was transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with complete penetrance. The nonsense mutation was absent in 230 unrelated, ethnically-matched healthy individuals used as controls. Functional deciphers by using a dual-luciferase reporter assay system revealed that the mutant NR2F2 protein had no transcriptional activity as compared with its wild-type counterpart. Furthermore, the mutation abrogated the synergistic transcriptional activation between NR2F2 and GATA4, another core cardiac transcription factor associated with CHD. This study firstly associates NR2F2 loss-of-function mutation with an increased susceptibility to double outlet right ventricle in humans, which provides further significant insight into the molecular mechanisms underpinning CHD, suggesting potential implications for genetic counseling of CHD families and personalized treatment of CHD patients.Fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is an inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by an expansion of 55-200 CGG repeats located in the FMR1 gene. The main clinical and neuropathological features of FXTAS are progressive intention tremor and gait ataxia associated with brain atrophy, neuronal cell loss and presence of ubiquitin-positive intranuclear inclusions in both neurons and astrocytes. At the molecular level, FXTAS is characterized by increased expression of FMR1 sense and antisense RNA containing expanded CGG or GGC repeats, respectively. Here, we discuss the putative molecular mechanisms underlying FXTAS and notably recent reports that expanded CGG and GGC repeats may be pathogenic through RAN translation into toxic proteins.BACKGROUND: A recent study identified DCHS1 as a causal gene for mitral valve prolapse. The goal of this study is to investigate the presence and frequency of known and novel variants in this gene in 100 asymptomatic patients with moderate to severe organic mitral regurgitation.
METHODS: DNA sequencing assays were developed for two previously identified functional missense variants, namely p.R2330C and p.R2513H, and all 21 exons of DCHS1. Pathogenicity of variants was evaluated in silico.
RESULTS: p.R2330C and p.R2513H were not identified in this cohort. Sequencing all coding regions revealed eight missense variants including six considered deleterious. This includes one novel variant (p.A2464P) and two rare variants (p.R2770Q and p.R2462Q). These variants are predicted to be deleterious with combined annotation-dependent depletion (CADD) scores greater than 25, which are in the same range as p.R2330C (CADD = 28.0) and p.R2513H (CADD = 24.3). More globally, 24 of 100 cases were carriers of at least one in silico-predicted deleterious missense variant in DCHS1, suggesting that this single gene may account for a substantial portion of cases.
CONCLUSION: This study reveals an important contribution of germline variants in DCHS1 in unrelated patients with mitral valve prolapse and supports genetic testing of this gene to screen individuals at risk.Context: The etiology of primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) remains unknown in most cases.
Objective: We sought to identify the genes causing POI.
Design: The study was a familial genetic study.
Setting: The study was performed at two academic institutions.
Patients: We identified a consanguineous Yemeni family in which four daughters had POI. A brother had azoospermia.
Intervention: DNA was subjected to whole genome sequencing. Shared regions of homozygosity were identified using Truploidy and prioritized using the Variant Annotation, Analysis, and Search Tool with control data from 387 healthy subjects. Imaging and quantification of protein localization and mitochondrial function were examined in cell lines.
Main Outcome: Homozygous recessive gene variants shared by the four sisters.
Results: The sisters shared a homozygous stop gain mutation in exon 6 of PSMC3IP (c.489 C>G, p.Tyr163Ter) and a missense variant in exon 1 of CLPP (c.100C>T, p.Pro34Ser). The affected brother also carried the homozygous PSMC3IP mutation. Functional studies demonstrated mitochondrial fragmentation in cells infected with the CLPP mutation. However, no abnormality was found in mitochondrial targeting or respiration.
Conclusions: The PSMC3IP mutation provides additional evidence that mutations in meiotic homologous recombination and DNA repair genes result in distinct female and male reproductive phenotypes, including delayed puberty and primary amenorrhea caused by POI (XX gonadal dysgenesis) in females but isolated azoospermia with normal pubertal development in males. The findings also suggest that the N-terminal missense mutation in CLPP does not cause substantial mitochondrial dysfunction or contribute to ovarian insufficiency in an oligogenic manner.Functionally redundant genes present a puzzle as to their evolutionary preservation, and offer an interesting opportunity for molecular specialization. In Caenorhabditis elegans, either one of two presenilin genes (sel-12 or hop-1) facilitate Notch activation, providing the catalytic subunit for the γ secretase proteolytic enzyme complex. For all known Notch signaling events, sel-12 can mediate Notch activation, so the conservation of hop-1 remains a mystery. Here, we uncover a novel "late-onset" germline Notch phenotype in which HOP-1-deficient worms fail to maintain proliferating germline stem cells during adulthood. Either SEL-12 or HOP-1 presenilin can impart sufficient Notch signaling for the establishment and expansion of the germline, but maintenance of an adult stem cell pool relies exclusively on HOP-1-mediated Notch signaling. We also show that HOP-1 is necessary for maximum fecundity and reproductive span. The low-fecundity phenotype of hop-1 mutants can be phenocopied by switching off glp-1/Notch function during the last stage of larval development. We propose that at the end of larval development, dual presenilin usage switches exclusively to HOP-1, perhaps offering opportunities for differential regulation of the germline during adulthood. Additional defects in oocyte size and production rate in hop-1 and glp-1 mutants indicate that the process of oogenesis is compromised when germline Notch signaling is switched off. We calculate that in wild-type adults, as much as 86% of cells derived from the stem cell pool function to support oogenesis. This work suggests that an important role for Notch signaling in the adult germline is to furnish a large and continuous supply of nurse cells to support the efficiency of oogenesis.Subtelomeric regions have several unusual characteristics, including complex repetitive structures, increased rates of evolution, and enrichment for genes involved in niche adaptation. The adaptive telomere failure hypothesis suggests that certain environmental stresses can induce a low level of telomere failure, potentially leading to elevated subtelomeric recombination that could result in adaptive mutational changes within subtelomeric genes. Here, we tested a key prediction of the adaptive telomere failure hypothesis-that telomere dysfunction mild enough to have little or no overall effect on cell fitness could still lead to substantial increases in the mutation rates of subtelomeric genes. Our results show that a mutant of Kluyveromyces lactis with stably short telomeres produced a large increase in the frequency of mutations affecting the native subtelomeric β-galactosidase (LAC4) gene. All lac4 mutants examined from strains with severe telomere dysfunction underwent terminal deletion/duplication events consistent with being due to break-induced replication. In contrast, although cells with mild telomere dysfunction also exhibited similar terminal deletion and duplication events, up to 50% of lac4 mutants from this background unexpectedly contained base changes within the LAC4 coding region. This mutational bias for producing base changes demonstrates that mild telomere dysfunction can be well suited as a force for altering the adaptive potential of subtelomeric genes.Kabuki syndrome is a monogenic disorder caused by loss of function variants in either of two genes encoding histone-modifying enzymes. We performed targeted sequencing in a cohort of 27 probands with a clinical diagnosis of Kabuki syndrome. Of these, 12 had causative variants in the two known Kabuki syndrome genes. In 2, we identified presumptive loss of function de novo variants in KMT2A (missense and splice site variants), a gene that encodes another histone modifying enzyme previously exclusively associated with Wiedermann-Steiner syndrome. Although Kabuki syndrome is a disorder of histone modification, we also find alterations in DNA methylation among individuals with a Kabuki syndrome diagnosis relative to matched normal controls, regardless of whether they carry a variant in KMT2A or KMT2D or not. Furthermore, we observed characteristic global abnormalities of DNA methylation that distinguished patients with a loss of function variant in KMT2D or missense or splice site variants in either KMT2D or KMT2A from normal controls. Our results provide new insights into the relationship of genotype to epigenotype and phenotype and indicate cross-talk between histone and DNA methylation machineries exposed by inborn errors of the epigenetic apparatus.ARL13B encodes for the ADP-ribosylation factor-like 13B GTPase, which is required for normal cilia structure and Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling. Disruptions in cilia structure or function lead to a class of human disorders called ciliopathies. Joubert syndrome is characterized by a wide spectrum of symptoms, including a variable degree of intellectual disability, ataxia, and ocular abnormalities. Here we report a novel homozygous missense variant c.[223G>A] (p.(Gly75Arg) in the ARL13B gene, which was identified by whole-exome sequencing of a trio from a consanguineous family with multiple-affected individuals suffering from intellectual disability, ataxia, ocular defects, and epilepsy. The same variant was also identified in a second family. We saw a striking difference in the severity of ataxia between affected male and female individuals in both families. Both ARL13B and ARL13B-c.[223G>A] (p.(Gly75Arg) expression rescued the cilia length and Shh defects displayed by Arl13b hennin (null) cells, indicating that the variant did not disrupt either ARL13B function. In contrast, ARL13B-c.[223G>A] (p.(Gly75Arg) displayed a marked loss of ARL3 guanine nucleotide-exchange factor activity, with retention of its GTPase activities, highlighting the correlation between its loss of function as an ARL3 guanine nucleotide-exchange factor and Joubert syndrome.The complex disorder Cantu syndrome (CS) arises from gain-of-function mutations in either KCNJ8 or ABCC9, the genes encoding the Kir6.1 and SUR2 subunits of ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels, respectively. Recent reports indicate that such mutations can increase channel activity by multiple molecular mechanisms. In this study, we determined the mechanism by which KATP function is altered by several substitutions in distinct structural domains of SUR2: D207E in the intracellular L0-linker and Y985S, G989E, M1060I, and R1154Q/R1154W in TMD2. We engineered substitutions at their equivalent positions in rat SUR2A (D207E, Y981S, G985E, M1056I, and R1150Q/R1150W) and investigated functional consequences using macroscopic rubidium (86Rb+) efflux assays and patch-clamp electrophysiology. Our results indicate that D207E increases KATP channel activity by increasing intrinsic stability of the open state, whereas the cluster of Y981S/G985E/M1056I substitutions, as well as R1150Q/R1150W, augmented Mg-nucleotide activation. We also tested the responses of these channel variants to inhibition by the sulfonylurea drug glibenclamide, a potential pharmacotherapy for CS. None of the D207E, Y981S, G985E, or M1056I substitutions had a significant effect on glibenclamide sensitivity. However, Gln and Trp substitution at Arg-1150 significantly decreased glibenclamide potency. In summary, these results provide additional confirmation that mutations in CS-associated SUR2 mutations result in KATP gain-of-function. They help link CS genotypes to phenotypes and shed light on the underlying molecular mechanisms, including consequences for inhibitory drug sensitivity, insights that may inform the development of therapeutic approaches to manage CS.Phospholipase C (PLC) is well known for its role in animal signaling, where it generates the second messengers, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG), by hydrolyzing the minor phospholipid, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), upon receptor stimulation. In plants, PLC's role is still unclear, especially because the primary targets of both second messengers are lacking, i.e. the ligand-gated Ca2+ channel and protein kinase C, and because PIP2 levels are extremely low. Nonetheless, the Arabidopsis genome encodes nine PLCs. We used a reversed-genetic approach to explore PLC's function in Arabidopsis, and report here that PLC3 is required for proper root development, seed germination and stomatal opening. Two independent knock-down mutants, plc3-2 and plc3-3, were found to exhibit reduced lateral root densities by 10-20%. Mutant seeds germinated more slowly but were less sensitive to ABA to prevent germination. Guard cells of plc3 were also compromised in ABA-dependent stomatal closure. Promoter-β-glucuronidase (GUS) analyses confirmed PLC3 expression in guard cells and germinating seeds, and revealed that the majority is expressed in vascular tissue, most probably phloem companion cells, in roots, leaves and flowers. In vivo 32Pi labeling revealed that ABA stimulated the formation of PIP2 in germinating seeds and guard cell-enriched leaf peels, which was significantly reduced in plc3 mutants. Overexpression of PLC3 had no effect on root system architecture or seed germination, but increased the plant's tolerance to drought. Our results provide genetic evidence for PLC's involvement in plant development and ABA signaling, and confirm earlier observations that overexpression increases drought tolerance. Potential molecular mechanisms for the above observations are discussed.In schizophrenia (SCZ) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD), the dysregulation of glutamate transmission through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) has been implicated as a potential etiological mechanism. Previous studies have accumulated evidence supporting NMDAR-encoding genes' role in etiology of SCZ and ASD. We performed a screening study for exonic regions of GRIN1, GRIN2A, GRIN2C, GRIN2D, GRIN3A, and GRIN3B, which encode NMDAR subunits, in 562 participates (370 SCZ and 192 ASD). Forty rare variants were identified including 38 missense, 1 frameshift mutation in GRIN2C and 1 splice site mutation in GRIN2D. We conducted in silico analysis for all variants and detected seven missense variants with deleterious prediction. De novo analysis was conducted if pedigree samples were available. The splice site mutation in GRIN2D is predicted to result in intron retention by minigene assay. Furthermore, the frameshift mutation in GRIN2C and splice site mutation in GRIN2D were genotyped in an independent sample set comprising 1877 SCZ cases, 382 ASD cases, and 2040 controls. Both of them were revealed to be singleton. Our study gives evidence in support of the view that ultra-rare variants with loss of function (frameshift, nonsense or splice site) in NMDARs genes may contribute to possible risk of SCZ.Chloroplast genes are transcribed by the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) or nucleus-encoded RNA polymerase. FRUCTOKINASE-LIKE PROTEINS (FLNs) are phosphofructokinase-B (PfkB)-type carbohydrate kinases that act as part of the PEP complex; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying FLN activity in rice remain elusive. Previously, we identified and characterized a heat-stress sensitive albino (hsa1) mutant in rice. Map-based cloning revealed that HSA1 encodes a putative OsFLN2. Here, we further demonstrated that knockdown or knockout of the OsFLN1, a close homolog of HSA1/OsFLN2, considerably inhibits chloroplast biogenesis and the fln1 knockout mutants, created by clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) and CRISPR-associate protein 9, exhibit severe albino phenotype and seedling lethality. Moreover, OsFLN1 localizes to the chloroplast. Yeast two-hybrid, pull-down and bimolecular fluorescence complementation experiments revealed that OsFLN1 and HSA1/OsFLN2 interact with THIOREDOXINZ (OsTRXz) to regulate chloroplast development. In agreement with this, knockout of OsTRXz resulted in a similar albino and seedling lethality phenotype to that of the fln1 mutants. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunoblot analysis revealed that the transcription and translation of PEP-dependent genes were strongly inhibited in fln1 and trxz mutants, indicating that loss of OsFLN1, HSA1/OsFLN2, or OsTRXz function perturbs the stability of the transcriptionally active chromosome complex and PEP activity. These results show that OsFLN1 and HSA1/OsFLN2 contribute to chloroplast biogenesis and plant growth.SHP2 is encoded by the protein tyrosine phosphatase 11 (Ptpn11) gene. Several gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in Ptpn11 have been identified in human hematopoietic malignancies and solid tumors. In addition, the mutation rate for SHP2 is the highest for colorectal cancer (CRC) among solid tumors. The E76K GOF mutation is the most common and active SHP2 mutation; however, the pathogenic effects and function of this mutation in CRC tumor progression have not been well characterized. The Wnt/β-catenin (CTNNB1) signaling pathway is crucial for CRC, and excessive activation of this pathway has been observed in several tumors. We used Ptpn11E76K conditional knock-in mice to study this GOF mutation in colitis-associated CRC (CAC) and used the CRC cell lines HT29 and HCT116 to determine the relationship between SHP2 and Wnt/β-catenin signaling. Ptpn11E76K conditional knock-in mice exhibited aggravated inflammation and increased CAC tumorigenesis. In vitro, SHP2E76K and SHP2WT promoted malignant biological behaviors of CRC cells and induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) via the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Together, our results showed that SHP2E76K acts as an oncogene that promotes the tumorigenesis and metastasis of CRC.Fryns syndrome (FS) is a multiple malformations syndrome with major features of congenital diaphragmatic hernia, pulmonary hypoplasia, craniofacial dysmorphic features, distal digit hypoplasia, and a range of other lower frequency malformations. FS is typically lethal in the fetal or neonatal period. Inheritance is presumed autosomal recessive. Although no major genetic cause has been identified for FS, biallelic truncating variants in PIGN, encoding a component of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor biosynthesis pathway, have been identified in a limited number of cases with a phenotype compatible with FS. Biallelic variants in PIGN, typically missense or compound missense with truncating, also cause multiple congenital anomalies-hypotonia-seizures syndrome 1 (MCAHS1). Here we report six further patients with FS with or without congenital diaphragmatic hernia and recessive loss of function PIGN alleles, including an intragenic deletion with a likely founder effect in La Réunion and other Indian Ocean islands. Our results support the hypothesis that a spectrum of phenotypic severity is associated with recessive PIGN variants, ranging from FS at the extreme end, caused by complete loss of function, to MCAHS1, in which some residual PIGN function may remain. Our data add FS resulting from PIGN variants to the catalog of inherited GPI deficiencies caused by the disruption of the GPI-anchor biosynthesis pathway.Dyslipidemia, characterized by elevation of plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), triglyceride (TG) and reduction of plasma high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), has been verified as a causal risk factor for cardiovascular diseases (CVD), leading to a high mortality rate in general population. It is important to understand the molecular metabolism underlying dyslipidemia in order to reduce the risk and to develop effective therapeutic approaches against CVD. ANGPTL3 (human) or Angptl3 (mouse), one member of the angiopoietin-like protein (ANGPTL) family, has been identified as an important regulator of lipid metabolism by inhibiting LPL and EL activity. Results have demonstrated that inactivation of Angptl3 in mice could obviously reduce the level of TG, LDL-C and the atherosclerotic lesion size, leading to a lower risk for dyslipidemia and CVD. Additionally, in humans, carriers with homozygous LOF mutations in ANGPTL3 have lower plasma LDL-C, TG levels and lower risk of atherosclerosis compared to the non-carriers. Here, we collect the latest data and results, giving a new insight into the important role of ANGPTL3 in controlling lipoprotein metabolism. Finally, we introduce two update reports on the antisense oligonucleotide and monoclonal antibody-based inactivation of ANGPTL3 in human clinical trials, to identify that ANGPTL3 could be a novel and effective target for the treatment of dyslipidemia and CVD.Relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is associated with resistance to chemotherapy and poor prognosis. Gain-of-function mutations in the 5'-nucleotidase, cytosolic II (NT5C2) gene induce resistance to 6-mercaptopurine and are selectively present in relapsed ALL. Yet, the mechanisms involved in NT5C2 mutation-driven clonal evolution during the initiation of leukaemia, disease progression and relapse remain unknown. Here we use a conditional-and-inducible leukaemia model to demonstrate that expression of NT5C2(R367Q), a highly prevalent relapsed-ALL NT5C2 mutation, induces resistance to chemotherapy with 6-mercaptopurine at the cost of impaired leukaemia cell growth and leukaemia-initiating cell activity. The loss-of-fitness phenotype of NT5C2+/R367Q mutant cells is associated with excess export of purines to the extracellular space and depletion of the intracellular purine-nucleotide pool. Consequently, blocking guanosine synthesis by inhibition of inosine-5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) induced increased cytotoxicity against NT5C2-mutant leukaemia lymphoblasts. These results identify the fitness cost of NT5C2 mutation and resistance to chemotherapy as key evolutionary drivers that shape clonal evolution in relapsed ALL and support a role for IMPDH inhibition in the treatment of ALL.The DOT1L histone H3 lysine 79 (H3K79) methyltransferase plays an oncogenic role in MLL-rearranged leukemogenesis. Here, we demonstrate that, in contrast to MLL-rearranged leukemia, DOT1L plays a protective role in ultraviolet radiation (UVR)-induced melanoma development. Specifically, the DOT1L gene is located in a frequently deleted region and undergoes somatic mutation in human melanoma. Specific mutations functionally compromise DOT1L methyltransferase enzyme activity leading to reduced H3K79 methylation. Importantly, in the absence of DOT1L, UVR-induced DNA damage is inefficiently repaired, so that DOT1L loss promotes melanoma development in mice after exposure to UVR. Mechanistically, DOT1L facilitates DNA damage repair, with DOT1L-methylated H3K79 involvement in binding and recruiting XPC to the DNA damage site for nucleotide excision repair (NER). This study indicates that DOT1L plays a protective role in UVR-induced melanomagenesis.Kinesin proteins are critical for various cellular functions such as intracellular transport and cell division, and many members of the family have been linked to monogenic disorders and cancer. We report eight individuals with intellectual disability and microcephaly from four unrelated families with parental consanguinity. In the affected individuals of each family, homozygosity for likely pathogenic variants in KIF14 were detected; two loss-of-function (p.Asn83Ilefs*3 and p.Ser1478fs), and two missense substitutions (p.Ser841Phe and p.Gly459Arg). KIF14 is a mitotic motor protein that is required for spindle localization of the mitotic citron rho-interacting kinase, CIT, also mutated in microcephaly. Our results demonstrate the involvement of KIF14 in development and reveal a wide phenotypic variability ranging from fetal lethality to moderate developmental delay and microcephaly.OBJECTIVE: Loss-of-function mutations in APOC3 associate with low remnant cholesterol levels and low risk of ischemic vascular disease (IVD). Because some studies show an additional association with low levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), low LDL-C may explain the low risk of IVD in APOC3 loss-of-function heterozygotes. We tested to what extent the low risk of IVD in APOC3 loss-of-function heterozygotes is mediated by low plasma remnant cholesterol and LDL-C.
APPROACH AND RESULTS: In APOC3 loss-of-function heterozygotes versus noncarriers, we first determined remnant cholesterol and LDL-C levels in meta-analyses of 137 895 individuals. Second, we determined whether the association with LDL-C was masked by lipid-lowering therapy. Finally, using mediation analysis, we determined the fraction of the low risk of IVD and ischemic heart disease mediated by remnant cholesterol and LDL-C. In meta-analyses, remnant cholesterol was 43% lower (95% confidence interval, 40%-47%), and LDL-C was 4% lower (1%-6%) in loss-of-function heterozygotes (n=776) versus noncarriers. In the general population, LDL-C was 3% lower in loss-of-function heterozygotes versus noncarriers, 4% lower when correcting for lipid-lowering therapy, and 3% lower in untreated individuals (P values, 0.06-0.008). Remnant cholesterol mediated 37% of the observed 41% lower risk of IVD and 54% of the observed 36% lower risk of ischemic heart disease; corresponding values mediated by LDL-C were 1% and 2%.
CONCLUSIONS: The low risk of IVD observed in APOC3 loss-of-function heterozygotes is mainly mediated by the associated low remnant cholesterol and not by low LDL-C. Furthermore, the contribution of LDL-C to IVD risk was not masked by lipid-lowering therapy. This suggests APOC3 and remnant cholesterol as important new targets for reducing cardiovascular risk.Neural tube defects (NTDs) remain one of the most serious birth defects, and although genes in several pathways have been implicated as risk factors for neural tube defects via knockout mouse models, very few molecular causes in humans have been identified. Whole exome sequencing identified deleterious variants in key apoptotic genes in two families with recurrent neural tube defects. Functional studies in fibroblasts indicate that these variants are loss-of-function, as apoptosis is significantly reduced. This is the first report of variants in apoptotic genes contributing to neural tube defect risk in humans.Nance-Horan syndrome is a rare X-linked developmental disorder characterized by bilateral congenital cataract, dental anomalies, facial dysmorphism, and intellectual disability. Here, we identify a patient with Nance-Horan syndrome caused by a new nonsense NHS variant. In addition, the patient presented congenital diaphragmatic hernia. NHS gene expression in murine fetal diaphragm was demonstrated, suggesting a possible involvement of NHS in diaphragm development. Congenital diaphragmatic hernia could result from NHS loss of function in pleuroperitoneal fold or in somites-derived muscle progenitor cells leading to an impairment of their cells migration.  Since the discovery of loss-of-function mutations in filaggrin (FLG) gene in atopic dermatitis (AD) individuals, significant attention has been paid against the skin barrier as an initial starting point of atopic march. Although FLG is a significant cornification-associated gene, skin barrier formation is a complex process mediated by an array of genes with specific functions. In this article, the mechanism of physical skin barrier formation is reviewed in detail, focusing on specific gene functions and inherited disorders caused by genetic aberrations. Additionally, the mechanism of percutaneous sensitization with environmental allergens in association with FLG-deficiency is reviewed in order to clarify the link between defective skin barrier and atopic march. Finally, updated knowledge of psoriasis pathophysiology in connection with genetic defect in skin barrier is reviewed. This article would provide a novel opportunity to understand the allergic/autoimmune disorders from the viewpoint of non-classical immune cells.Tryptophan hydroxylase (TRH) is the rate limiting enzyme in the serotonin synthesis. CRISPR-Cas9 technology was used to generate seven indel TRH mutants in Daphnia magna. Mono-allelic indel TRH-/+ clones showed normal levels of serotonin, measured by both immunohistochemistry and mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), whereas bi-allelic indel TRH-/- clones showed no detectable levels of serotonin. Life history and behavioral responses of TRH-/- clones showed the anti-phenotype of those exposed to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI). Mutants lacking serotonin grew less and hence reproduced latter, produced smaller clutches of smaller offspring and responded to a greater extent to light than wild type individuals. Mono-allelic indel TRH-/+ individuals showed the intermediate phenotype. The SSRI fluoxetine enhanced offspring production in all clones and decreased the response to light only in those clones having serotonin, thus indication that behavioral effects of this drug in D. magna are associated to serotonin. Results obtained with the TRH mutants are in line with reported ones in TRH knockouts of Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila and mice, indicating that there is one gene encoding TRH, which is the serotonin limiting enzyme in both the central and the periphery nervous system in Daphnia and that deprivation of serotonin increases anxiety-like behavior.Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains the most common form of acute leukemia among adults and accounts for a large number of leukemia-related deaths. Mutations in FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) is one of the most prevalent findings in this heterogeneous disease. The major types of mutations in FLT3 can be categorized as internal tandem duplications (ITD) and point mutations. Recent studies suggest that ITDs not only occur in the juxtamembrane region as originally described, but also in the kinase domain. Although the juxtamembrane ITDs have been well characterized, the tyrosine kinase domain ITDs have not yet been thoroughly studied due to their recent discovery. For this reason, we compared ITD mutations in the juxtamembrane domain with those in the tyrosine kinase domain, as well as with the most common activating point mutation in the tyrosine kinase domain, D835Y. The purpose of this study was to understand whether it is the nature of the mutation or the location of the mutation that plays the main role in leukemogenesis. The various FLT3 mutants were expressed in the murine pro-B cell line Ba/F3 and examined for their capacity to form colonies in semisolid medium. The size and number of colonies formed by Ba/F3 cells expressing either the internal tandem duplication within juxtamembrane domain of the receptor (JMD-ITD) or the tyrosine kinase domain (TKD)-ITD were indistinguishable, while Ba/F3 cells expressing D835Y/FLT3 failed to form colonies. Cell proliferation and cell survival was also significantly higher in TKD-ITD expressing cells, compared to cells expressing D835Y/FLT3. Furthermore, TKD-ITD is capable of inducing phosphorylation of STAT5, while D835Y/FLT3 fails to induce tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT5. Other signal transduction pathways such as the RAS/ERK and the PI3K/AKT pathways were activated to the same level in TKD-ITD cells as compared to D835Y/FLT3 expressing cells. Taken together, our data suggest that TKD-ITD displays similar oncogenic potential to the JMD-ITD but a higher oncogenic potential than the D835Y point mutation.BACKGROUND: Juvenile hemochromatosis is the most severe form of iron overloading phenotype. Although rare, it should be suspected in patients who present with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, diabetes mellitus, or cardiomyopathy without a clear cause.
CASE PRESENTATION: A young Serbian male presenting with end-stage heart failure was referred for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. An endomyocardial biopsy revealed cytoplasmic iron deposits in myocytes. His condition was stabilized with biventricular assist devices and he was listed for heart transplantation. Iron chelation therapy was commenced and resulted in rapid removal of iron burden. Serial outpatient echocardiograms demonstrated myocardial recovery such that a successful biventricular assist device explant occurred 131 days after initial implant. Targeted gene sequencing revealed a loss-of-function mutation within the HJV gene, which is consistent with juvenile hemochromatosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This rare case of a patient with juvenile hemochromatosis associated with a HJV mutation provides histologic evidence documenting the reversal of associated end-stage heart failure, requiring emergent mechanical circulatory support, with iron chelation therapy.Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is a non-selective cation channel, which can detect various noxious stimuli that cause pain, inflammation, hyperalgesia, and itch. TRPV1 knock-out mice show deficiency in nociception, but the in vivo effects of persistent activation of TRPV1 are not completely understood. Here, we generated TRPV1 knock-in mice with a G564S mutation. In the heterologous expression system, an electrophysiological study showed that the G564S mutation in mouse TRPV1 caused increased basal current and a leftward shift of voltage dependence. Intriguingly, using behavioral analysis, we found that knock-in mice showed a thermosensory defect, impaired inflammatory thermal pain, and capsaicin sensitivity. We also demonstrated an attenuated behavioral response to the pruritic agent histamine in the knock-in mice. Indeed, calcium imaging together with electrophysiology showed that the overactive mutant had decreased capsaicin sensitivity. Western blot analysis revealed that the G564S mutant reduced TRPV1 phosphorylation and cell membrane trafficking. Together, we have generated a mouse model with a gain-of-function mutation in Trpv1 gene and demonstrated that the pain and histamine-dependent itch sensations in these mice are impaired due to a decreased phosphorylation level and reduced membrane localization of TRPV1.Despite the rapid discovery of genes for rare genetic disorders, we continue to encounter individuals presenting with syndromic manifestations. Here, we have studied four affected people in three families presenting with cholestasis, congenital diarrhea, impaired hearing, and bone fragility. Whole-exome sequencing of all affected individuals and their parents identified biallelic mutations in Unc-45 Myosin Chaperone A (UNC45A) as a likely driver for this disorder. Subsequent in vitro and in vivo functional studies of the candidate gene indicated a loss-of-function paradigm, wherein mutations attenuated or abolished protein activity with concomitant defects in gut development and function.Calcineurin is a calcium (Ca2+)/calmodulin-regulated protein phosphatase that mediates Ca2+-dependent signal transduction. Here, we report six heterozygous mutations in a gene encoding the alpha isoform of the calcineurin catalytic subunit (PPP3CA). Notably, mutations were observed in different functional domains: in addition to three catalytic domain mutations, two missense mutations were found in the auto-inhibitory (AI) domain. One additional frameshift insertion that caused premature termination was also identified. Detailed clinical evaluation of the six individuals revealed clinically unexpected consequences of the PPP3CA mutations. First, the catalytic domain mutations and frameshift mutation were consistently found in patients with nonsyndromic early onset epileptic encephalopathy. In contrast, the AI domain mutations were associated with multiple congenital abnormalities including craniofacial dysmorphism, arthrogryposis and short stature. In addition, one individual showed severe skeletal developmental defects, namely, severe craniosynostosis and gracile bones (severe bone slenderness and perinatal fractures). Using a yeast model system, we showed that the catalytic and AI domain mutations visibly result in decreased and increased calcineurin signaling, respectively. These findings indicate that different functional effects of PPP3CA mutations are associated with two distinct disorders and suggest that functional approaches using a simple cellular system provide a tool for resolving complex genotype-phenotype correlations.Basement membranes are extracellular matrices essential for embryonic development in animals. Peroxidasins are extracellular peroxidases implicated in the unique sulfilimine cross-links between type IV basement membrane collagens. Loss of function in the Caenorhabditis elegans peroxidasin PXN-2 results in fully penetrant embryonic or larval lethality. Using genetic suppressor screening, we find that the requirement for PXN-2 in development can be bypassed by gain of function in multiple genes encoding other basement membrane components, or proteins implicated in cell-matrix attachment. We identify multiple alleles of let-805, encoding the transmembrane protein myotactin, which suppress phenotypes of pxn-2 null mutants and of other basement membrane mutants such as F-spondin/spon-1 These let-805 suppressor alleles cause missense alterations in two pairs of FNIII repeats in the extracellular domain; they act dominantly and have no detectable phenotypes alone, suggesting they cause gain of function. We also identify suppressor missense mutations affecting basement membrane components type IV collagen (emb-9, let-2) and perlecan (unc-52), as well as a mutation affecting spectraplakin (vab-10), a component of the epidermal cytoskeleton. These suppressor alleles do not bypass the developmental requirement for core structural proteins of the basement membrane such as laminin or type IV collagen. In conclusion, putative gain-of-function alterations in matrix proteins or in cell-matrix receptors can overcome the requirement for certain basement membrane proteins in embryonic development, revealing previously unknown plasticity in the genetic requirements for the extracellular matrix.Congenital neurological disorders are genetically highly heterogeneous. Rare forms of hereditary neurological disorders are still difficult to be adequately diagnosed. Pertinent studies, especially when reporting only single families, need independent confirmation. We present three unrelated families in which whole-exome sequencing identified the homozygous non-sense variants c.430[C>T];[C>T] p.(Arg144*), c.1219[C>T];[C>T] p.(Gln407*) and c.1408[C>T];[C>T] p.(Arg470*) in GTPBP2. Their clinical presentations include early onset and apparently non-progressive motor and cognitive impairment, and thereby overlap with findings in a recently described family harbouring a homozygous GTPBP2 splice site variant. Notable differences include structural brain abnormalities (e.g., agenesis of the corpus callosum, exclusive to our patients), and evidence for brain iron accumulation (exclusive to the previously described family). This report confirms pathogenicity of biallelic GTPBP2 inactivation and broadens the phenotypic spectrum. It also underlines that a potential involvement of brain iron accumulation needs clarification. Further patients will have to be identified and characterised in order to fully define the core features of GTPBP2-associated neurological disorder, but future approaches to molecular diagnosis of neurodevelopmental disorders should implement GTPBP2.Pathogenic variant in COCH are a known cause of DFNA9 autosomal dominant progressive hearing loss and vestibular dysfunction with adult onset. Hitherto, only dominant nonsynonymous variants and in-frame deletions with a presumed dominant negative or gain-of-function effect have been described. Here, we describe two brothers with congenital prelingual deafness and a homozygous nonsense c.292C>T(p.Arg98*) COCH variant, suggesting a loss-of-function effect. Vestibular dysfunction starting in the first decade was observed in the older patient. The heterozygous parents and sibling have normal hearing and vestibular function, except for the mother, who shows vestibular hyporeflexia and abnormal smooth pursuit tests, most likely due to concomitant disease. This is the first report of autosomal recessive inheritance of cochlea-vestibular dysfunction caused by a pathogenic variant in the COCH gene. An earlier onset of hearing impairment and vestibular dysfunction compared to the dominant hearing loss causing COCH variants is observed.Werner syndrome (WS) is a premature aging disorder caused by mutations in a RecQ-family DNA helicase (WRN). Mice lacking part of the helicase domain of the WRN ortholog exhibit several phenotypic features of WS. In this study, we generated a Wrn mutant line that, like humans, relies entirely on dietary sources of vitamin C (ascorbate) to survive, by crossing them to mice that lack the gulonolactone oxidase enzyme required for ascorbate synthesis. In the presence of 0.01% ascorbate (w/v) in drinking water, double-mutant mice exhibited a severe reduction in lifespan, small size, sterility, osteopenia, and metabolic profiles different from wild-type (WT) mice. Although increasing the dose of ascorbate to 0.4% improved dramatically the phenotypes of double-mutant mice, the metabolic and cytokine profiles were different from age-matched WT mice. Finally, double-mutant mice treated with 0.01% ascorbate revealed a permanent activation of all the 3 branches of the ER stress response pathways due to a severe chronic oxidative stress in the ER compartment. In addition, markers associated with the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent ER-associated degradation pathway were increased. Augmenting the dose of ascorbate reversed the activation of this pathway to WT levels rendering this pathway a potential therapeutic target in WS.-Aumailley, L., Dubois, M. J., Brennan, T. A., Garand, C., Paquet, E. R., Pignolo, R. J., Marette, A., Lebel, M. Serum vitamin C levels modulate the lifespan and endoplasmic reticulum stress response pathways in mice synthesizing a nonfunctional mutant WRN protein.Recently, Candida glabrata has emerged as a health-threatening pathogen and the rising resistance to antifungal agent in C. glabrata often leads to clinical treatment failure. To investigate the evolution of drug resistance and adherence ability in four paired clinical isolates collected before and after antifungal treatment. Sequence analysis, gene disruption, drug-susceptibility, adhesion tests and real-time quantitative PCR were performed. The azole-susceptible strains acquired azole resistance after antifungal therapy. Four gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in CgPDR1 were revealed by sequence analysis, namely G1099D, G346D, L344S and P927S, the last being reported for the first time. CDR1, CDR2 and SNQ2 efflux pump gene expression levels were elevated in strains harbouring GOF mutations in CgPDR1, resulting in decreased azole susceptibility. CgPDR1 alleles with distinct GOF mutations displayed different expression profiles for the drug-related genes. CgPDR1GOF mutations led to increased efflux pumps expression levels in a strain background independent way. Hyperactive Pdr1G1099D and Pdr1P927S displayed strain background-dependent increased adherence to host cells via upregulation of EPA1 transcription. Interestingly, the drug transporter gene expression levels did not always correspond with that of the adhesin EPA1 gene. GOF mutations in CgPDR1 conferred drug resistance and increased adherence in the clinical strains, possibly endowing C. glabrata with increased viability and pathogenicity.Emerging evidence from murine studies suggests that mammalian sex determination is the outcome of an imbalance between mutually antagonistic male and female regulatory networks that canalize development down one pathway while actively repressing the other. However, in contrast to testis formation, the gene regulatory pathways governing mammalian ovary development have remained elusive. We performed exome or Sanger sequencing on 79 46,XX SRY-negative individuals with either unexplained virilization or with testicular/ovotesticular disorders/differences of sex development (TDSD/OTDSD). We identified heterozygous frameshift mutations in NR2F2, encoding COUP-TF2, in three children. One carried a c.103_109delGGCGCCC (p.Gly35Argfs∗75) mutation, while two others carried a c.97_103delCCGCCCG (p.Pro33Alafs∗77) mutation. In two of three children the mutation was de novo. All three children presented with congenital heart disease (CHD), one child with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), and two children with blepharophimosis-ptosis-epicanthus inversus syndrome (BPES). The three children had androgen production, virilization of external genitalia, and biochemical or histological evidence of testicular tissue. We demonstrate a highly significant association between the NR2F2 loss-of-function mutations and this syndromic form of DSD (p = 2.44 × 10-8). We show that COUP-TF2 is highly abundant in a FOXL2-negative stromal cell population of the fetal human ovary. In contrast to the mouse, these data establish COUP-TF2 as a human "pro-ovary" and "anti-testis" sex-determining factor in female gonads. Furthermore, the data presented here provide additional evidence of the emerging importance of nuclear receptors in establishing human ovarian identity and indicate that nuclear receptors may have divergent functions in mouse and human biology.ATP synthase, H+ transporting, mitochondrial F1 complex, δ subunit (ATP5F1D; formerly ATP5D) is a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase and plays an important role in coupling proton translocation and ATP production. Here, we describe two individuals, each with homozygous missense variants in ATP5F1D, who presented with episodic lethargy, metabolic acidosis, 3-methylglutaconic aciduria, and hyperammonemia. Subject 1, homozygous for c.245C>T (p.Pro82Leu), presented with recurrent metabolic decompensation starting in the neonatal period, and subject 2, homozygous for c.317T>G (p.Val106Gly), presented with acute encephalopathy in childhood. Cultured skin fibroblasts from these individuals exhibited impaired assembly of F1FO ATP synthase and subsequent reduced complex V activity. Cells from subject 1 also exhibited a significant decrease in mitochondrial cristae. Knockdown of Drosophila ATPsynδ, the ATP5F1D homolog, in developing eyes and brains caused a near complete loss of the fly head, a phenotype that was fully rescued by wild-type human ATP5F1D. In contrast, expression of the ATP5F1D c.245C>T and c.317T>G variants rescued the head-size phenotype but recapitulated the eye and antennae defects seen in other genetic models of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation deficiency. Our data establish c.245C>T (p.Pro82Leu) and c.317T>G (p.Val106Gly) in ATP5F1D as pathogenic variants leading to a Mendelian mitochondrial disease featuring episodic metabolic decompensation.BACKGROUND: SCN5A mutations can lead to different cardiac diseases. Recently, SCN5A mutations have been linked to the clinical entity multifocal ectopic Purkinje-related premature contractions (MEPPC) characterized by ventricular ectopy and dilated cardiomyopathy.
METHODS & RESULTS: A family with a uniform MEPPC-like phenotype, associated with complex atrial and ventricular arrhythmias and dilated cardiomyopathy caused by a high frequency of ventricular ectopy was clinically assessed. Screening of the SCN5A gene revealed a missense mutation in the linker between segments 3 and 4 in domain 1 of the Nav1.5 protein, resulting in a glycine to aspartate substitution at position 213 (G213D). The phenotype co-segregated with the missense mutation. Electrophysiological studies of wild type (WT) hNav1.5 and hNav1.5_G213D expressed in CHO-K cells showed that the voltage of half-maximal activation (V½) was significantly more negative for hNav1.5_G213D compared to WT (V½=-38.7±0.5mV for WT and V½=-42.4±0.5mV for G213D; P<0.001). This suggests activation of Nav1.5_G231D at more negative potentials. The V½ of steady-state inactivation was significantly shifted towards more positive values for Nav1.5_G213D (V½=-86.7±0.2mV for WT and -82.2±0.3mV for G213D; P<0.001), also contributing to a gain-of-function phenotype. Flecainide and amiodarone markedly reduced premature atrial and ventricular contractions in four patients.
CONCLUSION: The Nav1.5_G213D mutation is associated with a gain-of-function phenotype, multifocal atrial and ventricular ectopy and dilated cardiomyopathy. Since patients with a MEPPC-like phenotype may specifically benefit from Class-1 antiarrhythmic drugs or amiodarone, clinical identification of this disease entity is important.In a genetic screen to identify genes that promote GLP-1/Notch signaling in Caenorhabditis elegans germline stem cells, we found a single mutation, om40, defining a gene called ego-3. ego-3(om40) causes several defects in the soma and the germline, including paralysis during larval development, sterility, delayed proliferation of germline stem cells, and ectopic germline stem cell proliferation. Whole genome sequencing identified om40 as an allele of hsp-90, previously known as daf-21, which encodes the C. elegans ortholog of the cytosolic form of HSP90. This protein is a molecular chaperone with a central position in the protein homeostasis network, which is responsible for proper folding, structural maintenance, and degradation of proteins. In addition to its essential role in cellular function, HSP90 plays an important role in stem cell maintenance and renewal. Complementation analysis using a deletion allele of hsp-90 confirmed that ego-3 is the same gene. hsp-90(om40) is an I→N conservative missense mutation of a highly conserved residue in the middle domain of HSP-90 RNA interference-mediated knockdown of hsp-90 expression partially phenocopied hsp-90(om40), confirming the loss-of-function nature of hsp-90(om40) Furthermore, reduced HSP-90 activity enhanced the effect of reduced function of both the GLP-1 receptor and the downstream LAG-1 transcription factor. Taken together, our results provide the first experimental evidence of an essential role for HSP90 in Notch signaling in development.BACKGROUND: Variable response after clopidogrel is well documented and may affect major adverse clinical events after stroke. Impact of CYP2C19 genetic polymorphisms is an established marker linked to variable response after clopidogrel. However, the association of certain genetic polymorphisms with prediction of major adverse clinical events following stroke still remains controversial, especially in Caucasians.
STUDY QUESTION: The primary aim was to evaluate the impact of CYP2C19 allele *2 in heterozygote form on major adverse clinical events in Caucasian poststroke survivors treated with clopidogrel. The secondary aim was to analyze the potential link between CYP2C19 genetic polymorphism and variable response after clopidogrel.
STUDY DESIGN: One hundred thirty patients of Caucasian origin following documented ischemic stroke were included. Platelet reactivity was assessed by light transmittance aggregometry (LTA) and matched with various CYP2C19 loss-of-function genetic polymorphisms and major adverse clinical events (composite of vascular deaths, stroke/transient ischemic attack, and myocardial infarction).
RESULTS: Over the mean follow-up of 14.9 months, 19 patients experienced major adverse clinical events. The risk of major adverse clinical events was nearly 3-fold in loss-of-function allele carriers (hazard ratio = 2.904; 95% confidence interval, 1.083-7.786; P = 0.013), whereas the risk of ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack alone was also higher (hazard ratio = 3.170; 95% confidence interval, 1.281-7.849; P = 0.034). Platelet activity was strongly associated with allele *2 status (rs = 0.21, P = 0.016) but not with other genetic polymorphisms. Carriers of allele*2 exhibited lower platelet response to adenosine diphosphate-mean LTA (30.1% vs. 42.0%; P = 0.017). There were no significant differences in LTA results with other agonists. Strong association of increase in adenosine diphosphate-induced aggregation with diabetes mellitus (rs = 0.20, P = 0.023), increasing age (rs = 0.23, P = 0.008), and conversely diminishing over increased weight (rs = 0.23, P = 0.009) was also detected. The carriers of other gene allele variants lack uniformed impact on variable response after clopidogrel.
CONCLUSIONS: Even heterozygous CYP2C19*2 allele carriers among Caucasian patients after ischemic stroke had a higher risk of major adverse clinical events. The LTA, however, did not predict major adverse clinical events. The exact clinical utility of these findings is still uncertain and requires large outcome-driven randomized trial in Caucasians for proof of concept.The Mediator complex is at the core of transcriptional regulation and plays a central role in plant immunity. The MEDIATOR25 (MED25) subunit of Arabidopsis thaliana regulates jasmonate-dependent resistance to Botrytis cinerea through interacting with the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor of jasmonate signaling, MYC2. Another Mediator subunit, MED8, acts independently or together with MED25 in plant immunity. However, unlike MED25, the underlying action mechanisms of MED8 in regulating B. cinerea resistance are still unknown. Here, we demonstrated that MED8 regulated plant immunity to B. cinerea through interacting with another bHLH transcription factor, FAMA, which was previously shown to control the final proliferation/differentiation switch during stomatal development. Our research demonstrates that FAMA is also an essential component of B. cinerea resistance. The fama loss-of-function mutants (fama-1 and fama-2) increased susceptibility to B. cinerea infection and reduced defense-gene expression. On the contrary, transgenic lines constitutively overexpressing FAMA showed opposite B. cinerea responses compared with the fama loss-of-function mutants. FAMA-overexpressed plants displayed enhanced resistance to B. cinerea infection and increased expression levels of defensin genes following B. cinerea treatment. Genetic analysis of MED8 and FAMA suggested that FAMA-regulated pathogen resistance was dependent on MED8. In addition, MED8 and FAMA were both associated with the G-box region in the promoter of ORA59. Our findings indicate that the MED8 subunit of the A. thaliana Mediator regulates plant immunity to B. cinerea through interacting with the transcription factor FAMA, which was discovered to be a key component in B. cinerea resistance.Familial erythrocytosis with elevated erythropoietin levels is frequently caused by mutations in genes that regulate oxygen-dependent transcription of the gene encoding erythropoietin ( EPO). We identified a mutation in EPO that cosegregated with disease with a logarithm of the odds (LOD) score of 3.3 in a family with autosomal dominant erythrocytosis. This mutation, a single-nucleotide deletion (c.32delG), introduces a frameshift in exon 2 that interrupts translation of the main EPO messenger RNA (mRNA) transcript but initiates excess production of erythropoietin from what is normally a noncoding EPO mRNA transcribed from an alternative promoter located in intron 1. (Funded by the Gebert Rüf Foundation and others.).Numerous studies have been conducted to understand the molecular mechanisms controlling mammalian secondary palate development such as growth, reorientation and fusion. However, little is known about the signaling factors regulating palate initiation. Mouse fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor 2 gene (Fgfr2) is expressed on E11.5 in the palate outgrowth within the maxillary process, in a region that is responsible for palate cell specification and shelf initiation. Fgfr2 continues to express in palate on E12.5 and E13.5 in both epithelial and mesenchymal cells, and inactivation of Fgfr2 expression in mesenchymal cells using floxed Fgfr2 allele and Osr2-Cre leads to cleft palate at various stages including reorientation, horizontal growth and fusion. Notably, some mutant embryos displayed no sign of palate shelf formation suggesting that FGF receptor 2 mediated FGF signaling may play an important role in palate initiation.Covalent attachment of ubiquitin to substrate proteins changes their function or marks them for proteolysis, and the specificity of ubiquitin attachment is mediated by the numerous E3 ligases encoded by animals. Mind Bomb is an essential E3 ligase during Notch pathway signaling in insects and vertebrates. While Caenorhabditis elegans encodes a Mind Bomb homolog (mib-1), it has never been recovered in the extensive Notch suppressor/enhancer screens that have identified numerous pathway components. Here, we show that C. elegans mib-1 null mutants have a spermatogenesis-defective phenotype that results in a heterogeneous mixture of arrested spermatocytes, defective spermatids, and motility-impaired spermatozoa. mib-1 mutants also have chromosome segregation defects during meiosis, molecular null mutants are intrinsically temperature-sensitive, and many mib-1 spermatids contain large amounts of tubulin. These phenotypic features are similar to the endogenous RNA intereference (RNAi) mutants, but mib-1 mutants do not affect RNAi. MIB-1 protein is expressed throughout the germ line with peak expression in spermatocytes followed by segregation into the residual body during spermatid formation. C. elegans mib-1 expression, while upregulated during spermatogenesis, also occurs somatically, including in vulva precursor cells. Here, we show that mib-1 mutants suppress both lin-12 and glp-1 (C. elegans Notch) gain-of-function mutants, restoring anchor cell formation and a functional vulva to the former and partly restoring oocyte production to the latter. However, suppressed hermaphrodites are only observed when grown at 25°, and they are self-sterile. This probably explains why mib-1 was not previously recovered as a Notch pathway component in suppressor/enhancer selection experiments.BACKGROUND: Mutations activating the α subunit of heterotrimeric Gs protein are associated with a number of highly specific pathological molecular phenotypes. One of the best characterized is the McCune Albright syndrome. The disease presents with an increased incidence of neoplasias in specific tissues.
MAIN BODY: A similar repertoire of neoplasms can develop whether mutations occur spontaneously in somatic tissues during fetal development or after birth. Glands are the most "permissive" tissues, recently found to include the entire gastrointestinal tract. High frequency of activating Gαs mutations is associated with precise diagnoses (e.g., IPMN, Pyloric gland adenoma, pituitary toxic adenoma). Typically, most neoplastic lesions, from thyroid to pancreas, remain well differentiated but may be a precursor to aggressive cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Here we propose the possibility that gain-of-function mutations of Gαs interfere with signals in the microenvironment of permissive tissues and lead to a transversal neoplastic phenotype.KEY MESSAGE: Shuhui498 (R498) is an elite parent of heavy panicle hybrid rice by pyramiding the rare gn1a and null gs3 alleles. This finding reveals the genetic basis and great potential application in future breeding of R498. The heavy panicle trait, defined as 5 g or more of grain weight per panicle, is one of the target traits in super-high-yield rice breeding programs. The use of heavy panicle-type hybrid rice has been shown to be a successful strategy for super-high-yield breeding programs, particularly under the environmental conditions of high humidity and deficient solar radiation in southwestern China. However, the genetic components of the heavy panicle trait in hybrid rice remain elusive. Here, we report that the combination of loss-of-function mutations in Grain number 1a (Gn1a) and Grain Size 3 (GS3) is responsible for the heavy panicle phenotype of the elite hybrid rice restorer line Shuhui498 (R498). The null gn1a allele is the determinant factor for heavy panicles through increased grain number, while gs3 is associated with grain size and weight. R498 pyramided the two major null alleles, resulting in heavy panicles with a high grain number and large grains. Clustering analysis revealed that the null gn1aR498 allele is a rare haplotype which has been innovatively utilized in R498, underscoring the great potential of R498 for breeding purposes. Our research thus sheds light on the distinct genetic compositions of heavy panicle-type rice and may potentially facilitate super-high-yield rice breeding.BACKGROUND: Elucidation of the genetic factors underlying chronic liver disease may reveal new therapeutic targets.
METHODS: We used exome sequence data and electronic health records from 46,544 participants in the DiscovEHR human genetics study to identify genetic variants associated with serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST). Variants that were replicated in three additional cohorts (12,527 persons) were evaluated for association with clinical diagnoses of chronic liver disease in DiscovEHR study participants and two independent cohorts (total of 37,173 persons) and with histopathological severity of liver disease in 2391 human liver samples.
RESULTS: A splice variant (rs72613567:TA) in HSD17B13, encoding the hepatic lipid droplet protein hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13, was associated with reduced levels of ALT (P=4.2×10-12) and AST (P=6.2×10-10). Among DiscovEHR study participants, this variant was associated with a reduced risk of alcoholic liver disease (by 42% [95% confidence interval {CI}, 20 to 58] among heterozygotes and by 53% [95% CI, 3 to 77] among homozygotes), nonalcoholic liver disease (by 17% [95% CI, 8 to 25] among heterozygotes and by 30% [95% CI, 13 to 43] among homozygotes), alcoholic cirrhosis (by 42% [95% CI, 14 to 61] among heterozygotes and by 73% [95% CI, 15 to 91] among homozygotes), and nonalcoholic cirrhosis (by 26% [95% CI, 7 to 40] among heterozygotes and by 49% [95% CI, 15 to 69] among homozygotes). Associations were confirmed in two independent cohorts. The rs72613567:TA variant was associated with a reduced risk of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, but not steatosis, in human liver samples. The rs72613567:TA variant mitigated liver injury associated with the risk-increasing PNPLA3 p.I148M allele and resulted in an unstable and truncated protein with reduced enzymatic activity.
CONCLUSIONS: A loss-of-function variant in HSD17B13 was associated with a reduced risk of chronic liver disease and of progression from steatosis to steatohepatitis. (Funded by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and others.).Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF or CSF3) and its receptor CSF3R regulate granulopoiesis, neutrophil function, and hematopoietic stem cell mobilization. Recent studies have uncovered an oncogenic role of mutations in the CSF3R gene in many hematologic malignancies. To find additional CSF3R mutations that give rise to cell transformation, we performed a cellular transformation assay in which murine interleukin 3 (IL-3)-dependent Ba/F3 cells were transduced with WT CSF3R plasmid and screened for spontaneous growth in the absence of IL-3. Any outgrowth clones were sequenced to identify CSF3R mutations with transformation capacity. We identified several novel mutations and determined that they transform cells via four distinct mechanisms: 1) cysteine- and disulfide bond-mediated dimerization (S581C); 2) polar, noncharged amino acid substitution at the transmembrane helix dimer interface at residue Thr-640; 3) increased internalization by a Glu-524 substitution that mimics a low G-CSF dose; and 4) hydrophobic amino acid substitutions in the membrane-proximal residues Thr-612, Thr-615, and Thr-618. Furthermore, the change in signaling activation was related to an altered CSF3R localization. We also found that CSF3R-induced STAT3 and ERK activations require CSF3R internalization, whereas STAT5 activation occurred at the cell surface. Cumulatively, we have expanded the regions of the CSF3R extracellular and transmembrane domains in which missense mutations exhibit leukemogenic capacity and have further elucidated the mechanistic underpinnings that underlie altered CSF3R expression, dimerization, and signaling activation.Robinow syndrome (RS) is a well-recognized Mendelian disorder known to demonstrate both autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive inheritance. Typical manifestations include short stature, characteristic facies, and skeletal anomalies. Recessive inheritance has been associated with mutations in ROR2 while dominant inheritance has been observed for mutations in WNT5A, DVL1, and DVL3. Through trio whole genome sequencing, we identified a homozygous frameshifting single nucleotide deletion in WNT5A in a previously reported, deceased infant with a unique constellation of features comprising a 46,XY disorder of sex development with multiple congenital malformations including congenital diaphragmatic hernia, ambiguous genitalia, dysmorphic facies, shortened long bones, adactyly, and ventricular septal defect. The parents, who are both heterozygous for the deletion, appear clinically unaffected. In conjunction with published observations of Wnt5a double knockout mice, we provide evidence for the possibility of autosomal recessive inheritance in association with WNT5A loss-of-function mutations in RS.SYNGAP1 loss-of-function variants are causally associated with intellectual disability, severe epilepsy, autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia. While there are hundreds of genetic risk factors for neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), this gene is somewhat unique because of the frequency and penetrance of loss-of-function variants found in patients combined with the range of brain disorders associated with SYNGAP1 pathogenicity. These clinical findings indicate that SYNGAP1 regulates fundamental neurodevelopmental processes that are necessary for brain development. Here, we describe four phenotypic domains that are controlled by Syngap1 expression across vertebrate species. Two domains, the maturation of cognitive functions and maintenance of excitatory-inhibitory balance, are defined exclusively through a review of the current literature. Two additional domains are defined by integrating the current literature with new data indicating that SYNGAP1/Syngap1 regulates innate survival behaviors and brain structure. These four phenotypic domains are commonly disrupted in NDDs, suggesting that a deeper understanding of developmental Syngap1 functions will be generalizable to other NDDs of known or unknown etiology. Therefore, we discuss the known molecular and cellular functions of Syngap1 and consider how these functions may contribute to the emergence of disease-relevant phenotypes. Finally, we identify major unexplored areas of Syngap1 neurobiology and discuss how a deeper understanding of this gene may uncover general principles of NDD pathobiology.The proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type-9 (PCSK9) plays a central role in cardiovascular disease (CVD) by degrading hepatic low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR). As such, loss-of-function (LOF) PCSK9 variants that fail to exit the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) increase hepatic LDLR levels and lower the risk of developing CVD. The retention of misfolded protein in the ER can cause ER stress and activate the unfolded protein response (UPR). In this study, we investigated whether a variety of LOF PCSK9 variants that are retained in the ER can cause ER stress and hepatic cytotoxicity. Although overexpression of these PCSK9 variants caused an accumulation in the ER of hepatocytes, UPR activation or apoptosis was not observed. Furthermore, ER retention of endogenous PCSK9 via splice switching also failed to induce the UPR. Consistent with these in vitro studies, overexpression of PCSK9 in the livers of mice had no impact on UPR activation. To elucidate the cellular mechanism to explain these surprising findings, we observed that the 94-kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP94) sequesters PCSK9 away from the 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP78), the major activator of the UPR. As a result, GRP94 knockdown increased the stability of GRP78-PCSK9 complex and resulted in UPR activation following overexpression of ER-retained PCSK9 variants relative to WT secreted controls. Given that overexpression of these LOF PCSK9 variants does not cause UPR activation under normal homeostatic conditions, therapeutic strategies aimed at blocking the autocatalytic cleavage of PCSK9 in the ER represent a viable strategy for reducing circulating PCSK9.Glucocorticoid (GC) therapy occasionally relieves tumor-related fever and promotes tumor reduction in patients with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). A mutation analysis of 24 patients with CMML revealed the relationship of GC effectiveness, defined as a monocyte reduction of > 50% within 3 days of methylprednisolone administration, with the MEFV single-nucleotide variant (SNV) and CBL mutation. Lipopolysaccharide-stimulated monocytes harboring MEFV E148Q produced greater amounts of IL-1β and TNF-α than did wild-type monocytes; this was effectively suppressed by GC. Primary CMML cells harboring the MEFV SNV and CBL mutation, and the myelomonocytic leukemia cell line GDM-1, harboring the CBL mutation, were both more significantly suppressed than non-mutated cells following GC treatment in the presence of GM-CSF. A loss-of-function CBL mutation prolonged STAT5 phosphorylation after GM-CSF stimulation, which was rapidly terminated in both patient samples and GDM-1 cells. In conclusion, GC therapy effectively treats CMML cells harboring the MEFV SNV and CBL mutation by reducing inflammatory cytokine production and terminating prolonged STAT5 phosphorylation in the GM-CSF signaling pathway.IGF1R is a ubiquitous receptor tyrosine kinase that plays critical roles in cell proliferation, growth and survival. Clinical studies have demonstrated upregulation of IGF1R mediated signaling in a number of malignancies including colon, breast, and lung cancers. Overexpression of the IGF1R in these malignancies is associated with a poor prognosis and overall survival. IGF1R specific kinase inhibitors have failed in multiple clinical trials partly because of the complex nature of IGF1R signaling. Thus identifying new binding partners and allosteric sites on IGF1R are emerging areas of research. More recently, IGF1R has been shown to translocate into the nucleus and perform many functions. In this study, we generated a library of IGF1R deletion and point mutants to examine IGF1R subcellular localization and activation of downstream signaling pathways. We show that the nuclear localization of IGF1R is primarily defined by its cytoplasmic domain. We identified a cross-talk between IGF1R and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways and showed, for the first time, that IGF1R is associated with upregulation of TCF-mediated β-catenin transcriptional activity. Using loss-of-function mutants, deletion analysis and IGF1R specific inhibitor(s), we show that cytoplasmic and nuclear activities are two independent functions of IGF1R. Furthermore, we identified a unique loss-of-function mutation in IGF1R. This unique loss-of-function mutant retains only nuclear functions and sits in a pocket, outside ATP and substrate binding region, that is suited for designing allosteric inhibitors of IGF1R.We previously reported a granulin (GRN) null mutation, originating from a common founder, in multiple Belgian families with frontotemporal dementia. Here, we used data of a 10-year follow-up study to describe in detail the clinical heterogeneity observed in this extended founder pedigree. We identified 85 patients and 40 unaffected mutation carriers, belonging to 29 branches of the founder pedigree. Most patients (74.4%) were diagnosed with frontotemporal dementia, while others had a clinical diagnosis of unspecified dementia, Alzheimer's dementia or Parkinson's disease. The observed clinical heterogeneity can guide clinical diagnosis, genetic testing, and counseling of mutation carriers. Onset of initial symptomatology is highly variable, ranging from age 45 to 80 years. Analysis of known modifiers, suggested effects of GRN rs5848, microtubule-associated protein tau H1/H2, and chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 G4C2 repeat length on onset age but explained only a minor fraction of the variability. Contrary, the extended GRN founder family is a valuable source for identifying other onset age modifiers based on exome or genome sequences. These modifiers might be interesting targets for developing disease-modifying therapies.Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorders in the elderly. To identify rare genetic factors other than apolipoprotein E ɛ4 allele (ApoE ɛ4) contributing to the pathogenesis of late-onset AD (LOAD), we conducted a whole-exome analysis of 246 ApoE ɛ4-negative LOAD cases and 172 matched controls in Hong Kong Chinese population. LOAD patients showed a significantly higher burden of rare loss-of-function variants in genes related to immune function than healthy controls. Among the genes involved in immune function, we identified a rare stop-gain variant (p.Q48X) in mixed lineage kinase domain like pseudokinase (MLKL) gene present exclusively in 6 LOAD cases. MLKL is expressed in neurons, and the its expression levels in the p.Q48X carriers were significantly lower than that in age-matched wild-type controls. The ratio of Aβ42 to Aβ40 significantly increased in MLKL knockdown cells compared to scramble controls. MLKL loss-of-function mutation might contribute to late-onset ApoE ɛ4-negative AD in the Hong Kong Chinese population.N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) random mutagenesis was used to generate a mouse model for the analysis of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) cation channel. A transversion from T→A in exon 4 led to a Leu206Stop mutation generating a loss-of-function mutant. The TRPV1 agonist capsaicin was used to analyze functional and nociceptive parameters in vitro and in vivo in TRPV1 Leu206Stop mice and congenic C3HeB/FeJ controls. Capsaicin-induced [Ca2+]i changes in small diameter DRG neurons were significantly diminished in TRPV1 Leu206Stop mice and administration of capsaicin induced neither hypothermia nor nocifensive behaviour in vivo. TRPV1 Leu206Stop mice were tested in the spinal nerve ligation of mononeuropathic pain and developed mechanical hypersensitivity two weeks after nerve injury. In the open field test, a significant increase in spontaneous locomotion was detected in TRPV1 Leu206Stop mice as compared to wildtype controls. TRPV1 knockout mice have been reported to carry a similar phenotype regarding capsaicin-evoked responses in vitro and in vivo. However, in contrast to TRPV1 Leu206Stop mice, TRPV1 knockout mice did not differ in spontaneous locomotion as compared to congenic C57BL/6 mice, suggesting subtle ENU-dependent or independent strain differences between TRPV1 Leu206Stop mice and their wildtype controls. In summary, these data revealed a target-related (i.e. capsaicin-evoked) phenotype of TRPV1 Leu206Stop mice closely resembling that of published TRPV1 knockout mice. However, since ENU-mutant mice are congenic with the mouse strain initially used in random mutagenesis, direct phenotypic comparison with the respective wildtype controls is possible, and the time-consuming backcrossing in lines with targeted mutations is avoided.Recent studies are discovering TP53 mutations with gain of function (GOF) properties that promote tumorigenesis via a variety of mechanisms. To our knowledge, all reported compound mutations are allelic. We identified two patients with biallelic GOF TP53 mutations in their tumors and a third with allelic compound variants. The correlation with p53 expression was also examined. Genomic DNA was extracted from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue and mutational analysis was performed using Ion AmpliSeq™Cancer HotSpot Panel V2. Biallelic GOF mutations (p.R273H and p.R273C) were identified in a 19-year-old male with glioblastoma (allele frequencies 94% and 48%) and a 54-year-old with pT3 penile squamous cell carcinoma (allele frequencies 19% and 27%). Immunohistochemistry showed nuclear accumulation of p53. The third patient, a 62-year-old female with metastatic lung adenocarcinoma, had allelic p.P278S (GOF) and p.R283L (non-GOF) variants at frequencies of 61% but with null staining for p53. Germline testing for Patient 1 confirmed wildtype TP53. No other variants were discovered among the genes tested in these cases. All patients succumbed within two years of diagnosis despite aggressive treatment. In conclusion, implementation of TP53 mutation analysis in clinical practice may predict patient outcome, and inhibition of GOF p53 could represent an attractive target for therapy.BACKGROUND: Germline pathogenic variants in the E-cadherin gene (CDH1) are strongly associated with the development of hereditary diffuse gastric cancer. There is a paucity of data to guide risk assessment and management of families with hereditary diffuse gastric cancer that do not carry a CDH1 pathogenic variant, making it difficult to make informed decisions about surveillance and risk-reducing surgery. We aimed to identify new candidate genes associated with predisposition to hereditary diffuse gastric cancer in affected families without pathogenic CDH1 variants.
METHODS: We did whole-exome sequencing on DNA extracted from the blood of 39 individuals (28 individuals diagnosed with hereditary diffuse gastric cancer and 11 unaffected first-degree relatives) in 22 families without pathogenic CDH1 variants. Genes with loss-of-function variants were prioritised using gene-interaction analysis to identify clusters of genes that could be involved in predisposition to hereditary diffuse gastric cancer.
FINDINGS: Protein-affecting germline variants were identified in probands from six families with hereditary diffuse gastric cancer; variants were found in genes known to predispose to cancer and in lesser-studied DNA repair genes. A frameshift deletion in PALB2 was found in one member of a family with a history of gastric and breast cancer. Two different MSH2 variants were identified in two unrelated affected individuals, including one frameshift insertion and one previously described start-codon loss. One family had a unique combination of variants in the DNA repair genes ATR and NBN. Two variants in the DNA repair gene RECQL5 were identified in two unrelated families: one missense variant and a splice-acceptor variant.
INTERPRETATION: The results of this study suggest a role for the known cancer predisposition gene PALB2 in families with hereditary diffuse gastric cancer and no detected pathogenic CDH1 variants. We also identified new candidate genes associated with disease risk in these families.
FUNDING: UK Medical Research Council (Sackler programme), European Research Council under the European Union's Seventh Framework Programme (2007-13), National Institute for Health Research Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, Experimental Cancer Medicine Centres, and Cancer Research UK.Context: The hypothalamic melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) pathway serves a critical role in regulating body weight. Loss of function (LoF) mutations in the MC4R pathway, including mutations in the pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), prohormone convertase 1 (PCSK1), leptin receptor (LEPR), or MC4R genes, have been shown to cause early-onset severe obesity.
Methods: Through a comprehensive epidemiological analysis of known and predicted LoF variants in the POMC, PCSK1, and LEPR genes, we sought to estimate the number of US individuals with biallelic MC4R pathway LoF variants.
Results: We predict ~650 α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH)/POMC, 8500 PCSK1, and 3600 LEPR homozygous and compound heterozygous individuals in the United States, cumulatively enumerating >12,800 MC4R pathway-deficient obese patients. Few of these variants have been genetically diagnosed to date. These estimates increase when we include a small subset of less rare variants: β-MSH/POMC,PCSK1 N221D, and a PCSK1 LoF variant (T640A). To further define the MC4R pathway and its potential impact on obesity, we tested associations between body mass index (BMI) and LoF mutation burden in the POMC, PCSK1, and LEPR genes in various populations. We show that the cumulative allele burden in individuals with two or more LoF alleles in one or more genes in the MC4R pathway are predisposed to a higher BMI than noncarriers or heterozygous LoF carriers with a defect in only one gene.
Conclusions: Our analysis represents a genetically rationalized study of the hypothalamic MC4R pathway aimed at genetic patient stratification to determine which obese subpopulations should be studied to elucidate MC4R agonist (e.g., setmelanotide) treatment responsiveness.Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is characterized by chronic airway disease, male infertility, and randomization of the left/right body axis as a result of defects of motile cilia and sperm flagella. We identified loss-of-function mutations in the open-reading frame C11orf70 in PCD individuals from five distinct families. Transmission electron microscopy analyses and high-resolution immunofluorescence microscopy demonstrate that loss-of-function mutations in C11orf70 cause immotility of respiratory cilia and sperm flagella, respectively, as a result of the loss of axonemal outer (ODAs) and inner dynein arms (IDAs), indicating that C11orf70 is involved in cytoplasmic assembly of dynein arms. Expression analyses of C11orf70 showed that C11orf70 is expressed in ciliated respiratory cells and that the expression of C11orf70 is upregulated during ciliogenesis, similar to other previously described cytoplasmic dynein-arm assembly factors. Furthermore, C11orf70 shows an interaction with cytoplasmic ODA/IDA assembly factor DNAAF2, supporting our hypothesis that C11orf70 is a preassembly factor involved in the pathogenesis of PCD. The identification of additional genetic defects that cause PCD and male infertility is of great importance for the clinic as well as for genetic counselling.Periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH) is a malformation of cortical development commonly associated with epilepsy. We exome sequenced 202 individuals with sporadic PVNH to identify novel genetic risk loci. We first performed a trio-based analysis and identified 219 de novo variants. Although no novel genes were implicated in this initial analysis, PVNH cases were found overall to have a significant excess of nonsynonymous de novo variants in intolerant genes (p = 3.27x10-7), suggesting a role for rare new alleles in genes yet to be associated with the condition. Using a gene-level collapsing analysis comparing cases and controls, we identified a genome-wide significant signal driven by four ultra-rare loss-of-function heterozygous variants in MAP1B, including one de novo variant. In at least one instance, the MAP1B variant was inherited from a parent with previously undiagnosed PVNH. The PVNH was frontally predominant and associated with perisylvian polymicrogyria. These results implicate MAP1B in PVNH. More broadly, our findings suggest that detrimental mutations likely arising in immediately preceding generations with incomplete penetrance may also be responsible for some apparently sporadic diseases.Conventional protein kinase C (PKC) family members are reversibly activated by binding to the second messengers Ca2+ and diacylglycerol, events that break autoinhibitory constraints to allow the enzyme to adopt an active, but degradation-sensitive, conformation. Perturbing these autoinhibitory constraints, resulting in protein destabilization, is one of many mechanisms by which PKC function is lost in cancer. Here, we address how a gain-of-function germline mutation in PKCα in Alzheimer's disease (AD) enhances signaling without increasing vulnerability to down-regulation. Biochemical analyses of purified protein demonstrate that this mutation results in an ∼30% increase in the catalytic rate of the activated enzyme, with no changes in the concentrations of Ca2+ or lipid required for half-maximal activation. Molecular dynamics simulations reveal that this mutation has both localized and allosteric effects, most notably decreasing the dynamics of the C-helix, a key determinant in the catalytic turnover of kinases. Consistent with this mutation not altering autoinhibitory constraints, live-cell imaging studies reveal that the basal signaling output of PKCα-M489V is unchanged. However, the mutant enzyme in cells displays increased sensitivity to an inhibitor that is ineffective toward scaffolded PKC, suggesting the altered dynamics of the kinase domain may influence protein interactions. Finally, we show that phosphorylation of a key PKC substrate, myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate, is increased in brains of CRISPR-Cas9 genome-edited mice containing the PKCα-M489V mutation. Our results unveil how an AD-associated mutation in PKCα permits enhanced agonist-dependent signaling via a mechanism that evades the cell's homeostatic down-regulation of constitutively active PKCα.Here, we describe a fourth case of a human with a de novo KCNJ6 (GIRK2) mutation, who presented with clinical findings of severe hyperkinetic movement disorder and developmental delay, similar to the Keppen-Lubinsky syndrome but without lipodystrophy. Whole-exome sequencing of the patient's DNA revealed a heterozygous de novo variant in the KCNJ6 (c.512T>G, p.Leu171Arg). We conducted in vitro functional studies to determine if this Leu-to-Arg mutation alters the function of GIRK2 channels. Heterologous expression of the mutant GIRK2 channel alone produced an aberrant basal inward current that lacked G protein activation, lost K+ selectivity and gained Ca2+ permeability. Notably, the inward current was inhibited by the Na+ channel blocker QX-314, similar to the previously reported weaver mutation in murine GIRK2. Expression of a tandem dimer containing GIRK1 and GIRK2(p.Leu171Arg) did not lead to any currents, suggesting heterotetramers are not functional. In neurons expressing p.Leu171Arg GIRK2 channels, these changes in channel properties would be expected to generate a sustained depolarization, instead of the normal G protein-gated inhibitory response, which could be mitigated by expression of other GIRK subunits. The identification of the p.Leu171Arg GIRK2 mutation potentially expands the Keppen-Lubinsky syndrome phenotype to include severe dystonia and ballismus. Our study suggests screening for dominant KCNJ6 mutations in the evaluation of patients with severe movement disorders, which could provide evidence to support a causal role of KCNJ6 in neurological channelopathies.Next-generation sequencing is a powerful tool for the discovery of genes related to neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). Here, we report the identification of a distinct syndrome due to de novo or inherited heterozygous mutations in Tousled-like kinase 2 (TLK2) in 38 unrelated individuals and two affected mothers, using whole-exome and whole-genome sequencing technologies, matchmaker databases, and international collaborations. Affected individuals had a consistent phenotype, characterized by mild-borderline neurodevelopmental delay (86%), behavioral disorders (68%), severe gastro-intestinal problems (63%), and facial dysmorphism including blepharophimosis (82%), telecanthus (74%), prominent nasal bridge (68%), broad nasal tip (66%), thin vermilion of the upper lip (62%), and upslanting palpebral fissures (55%). Analysis of cell lines from three affected individuals showed that mutations act through a loss-of-function mechanism in at least two case subjects. Genotype-phenotype analysis and comparison of computationally modeled faces showed that phenotypes of these and other individuals with loss-of-function variants significantly overlapped with phenotypes of individuals with other variant types (missense and C-terminal truncating). This suggests that haploinsufficiency of TLK2 is the most likely underlying disease mechanism, leading to a consistent neurodevelopmental phenotype. This work illustrates the power of international data sharing, by the identification of 40 individuals from 26 different centers in 7 different countries, allowing the identification, clinical delineation, and genotype-phenotype evaluation of a distinct NDD caused by mutations in TLK2.INTRODUCTION: Progranulin (PGRN) is an acrosomal glycoprotein that is synthesized during spermatogenesis. It is overexpressed in tumors and has anti-inflammatory properties. The protein may be cleaved into granulins which display pro-inflammatory properties. In 2006, mutations in progranulin gene (GRN) that cause haploinsufficiency were found in familial cases of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Patients with null mutations in GRN display very low-plasma PGRN levels; this analysis is useful for identifying mutation carriers, independent of the clinical presentation, and in those before the appearance of symptoms. Areas covered: Here, we review the current knowledge of PGRN physiological functions and GRN mutations associated with FTD; we also summarize state of the art clinical trials and those compounds able to replace PGRN loss in preclinical models. Expert opinion: PGRN represents a promising therapeutic target for FTD. Cohorts suitable for treatment, ideally at the preclinical stage, where pathogenic mechanisms ongoing in the brain are targeted, are available. However, PGRN may have side effects, such as the risk of tumorigenesis, and the risk/benefit ratio of any intervention cannot be predicted. Furthermore, at present, the situation is complicated by the absence of adequate outcome measures.Sleep and wake have global effects on brain physiology, from molecular changes1-4 and neuronal activities to synaptic plasticity3-7. Sleep-wake homeostasis is maintained by the generation of a sleep need that accumulates during waking and dissipates during sleep8-11. Here we investigate the molecular basis of sleep need using quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of the sleep-deprived and Sleepy mouse models of increased sleep need. Sleep deprivation induces cumulative phosphorylation of the brain proteome, which dissipates during sleep. Sleepy mice, owing to a gain-of-function mutation in the Sik3 gene 12 , have a constitutively high sleep need despite increased sleep amount. The brain proteome of these mice exhibits hyperphosphorylation, similar to that seen in the brain of sleep-deprived mice. Comparison of the two models identifies 80 mostly synaptic sleep-need-index phosphoproteins (SNIPPs), in which phosphorylation states closely parallel changes of sleep need. SLEEPY, the mutant SIK3 protein, preferentially associates with and phosphorylates SNIPPs. Inhibition of SIK3 activity reduces phosphorylation of SNIPPs and slow wave activity during non-rapid-eye-movement sleep, the best known measurable index of sleep need, in both Sleepy mice and sleep-deprived wild-type mice. Our results suggest that phosphorylation of SNIPPs accumulates and dissipates in relation to sleep need, and therefore SNIPP phosphorylation is a molecular signature of sleep need. Whereas waking encodes memories by potentiating synapses, sleep consolidates memories and restores synaptic homeostasis by globally downscaling excitatory synapses4-6. Thus, the phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle of SNIPPs may represent a major regulatory mechanism that underlies both synaptic homeostasis and sleep-wake homeostasis.Wilms tumour is a childhood tumour that arises as a consequence of somatic and rare germline mutations, the characterisation of which has refined our understanding of nephrogenesis and carcinogenesis. Here we report that germline loss of function mutations in TRIM28 predispose children to Wilms tumour. Loss of function of this transcriptional co-repressor, which has a role in nephrogenesis, has not previously been associated with cancer. Inactivation of TRIM28, either germline or somatic, occurred through inactivating mutations, loss of heterozygosity or epigenetic silencing. TRIM28-mutated tumours had a monomorphic epithelial histology that is uncommon for Wilms tumour. Critically, these tumours were negative for TRIM28 immunohistochemical staining whereas the epithelial component in normal tissue and other Wilms tumours stained positively. These data, together with a characteristic gene expression profile, suggest that inactivation of TRIM28 provides the molecular basis for defining a previously described subtype of Wilms tumour, that has early age of onset and excellent prognosis.OBJECTIVE: To study the functional properties of six novel missense mutations of the NR5A1 gene encoding the steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1) identified in six patients with 46,XY disorders of sex development (DSD) and to describe their relative phenotype-genotype relationship.
DESIGN: Genetic and functional studies.
SETTING: University department.
PATIENT(S): Six 46,XY DSD patients.
INTERVENTION(S): None.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Sanger sequencing and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification analysis to identify the mutations or deletions/duplications of the NR5A1 gene. Functional studies by transactivation assays to predict the impact of mutations on molecular function.
RESULT(S): NR5A1 exons sequencing identified in six 46,XY DSD patients six novel mutations: p.T40R, p.T47C, p.G328W, p.A351E, p.R427W, and p.Q460R. Five missense variants were heterozygous, and one was homozygous (p.R427W). Functional analysis revealed a significant loss of DNA-binding and transactivation ability for all variants, except for p.Q460R, which showed a modest reduced activity compared with that of the wild-type protein. Phenotypes associated with these mutations varied from males with spontaneous puberty, substantial T production, and possible fertility, to females with and without müllerian structures and primary amenorrhea.
CONCLUSION(S): We describe six novel mutations in NR5A1 gene and showed that they might affect protein structure, therefore compromising seriously the SF-1 role in regulating gonadal development. Clinically, we suggest that NR5A1 analysis should be performed whenever atypical sex organs are evidenced or there is an abnormal sexual development, to have proper diagnosis and better management of patients.Glycine receptors (GlyRs) are Cys-loop receptors that mediate fast synaptic inhibition in the brain stem and spinal cord. They are involved in the generation of motor rhythm, reflex circuit coordination, and sensory signal processing and therefore represent targets for therapeutic interventions. The extracellular domains (ECDs) of Cys-loop receptors typically contain many aromatic amino acids, but only those in the receptor binding pocket have been extensively studied. Here, we show that many Phe residues in the ECD that are not located in the binding pocket are also involved in GlyR function. We examined these Phe residues by creating several GlyR variants, characterizing these variants with the two-electrode voltage clamp technique in Xenopus oocytes, and interpreting changes in receptor parameters by using currently available structural information on the open and closed states of the GlyR. Substitution of six of the eight Phe residues in the ECD with Ala resulted in loss of function or significantly increased the EC50 and also altered the maximal response to the partial GlyR agonist taurine compared with glycine in those receptor variants that were functional. Substitutions with other amino acids, combined with examination of nearby residues that could potentially interact with these Phe residues, suggested interactions that could be important for GlyR function, and possibly similar interactions could contribute to the function of other members of the Cys-loop receptor family. Overall, our results suggest that many ECD regions are important for GlyR function and that these regions could inform the design of therapeutic agents targeting GlyR activity.Pre-mRNA splicing is a critical step of gene expression in eukaryotes. Transcriptome-wide splicing patterns are complex and primarily regulated by a diverse set of recognition elements and associated RNA-binding proteins. The retention and splicing (RES) complex is formed by three different proteins (Bud13p, Pml1p and Snu17p) and is involved in splicing in yeast. However, the importance of the RES complex for vertebrate splicing, the intronic features associated with its activity, and its role in development are unknown. In this study, we have generated loss-of-function mutants for the three components of the RES complex in zebrafish and showed that they are required during early development. The mutants showed a marked neural phenotype with increased cell death in the brain and a decrease in differentiated neurons. Transcriptomic analysis of bud13, snip1 (pml1) and rbmx2 (snu17) mutants revealed a global defect in intron splicing, with strong mis-splicing of a subset of introns. We found these RES-dependent introns were short, rich in GC and flanked by GC depleted exons, all of which are features associated with intron definition. Using these features, we developed and validated a predictive model that classifies RES dependent introns. Altogether, our study uncovers the essential role of the RES complex during vertebrate development and provides new insights into its function during splicing.BACKGROUND: HER2 over-expression is related with a poor prognosis in patients with invasive breast cancer tumors. Clinical associations have reported that somatic mutations of p53 more frequently detected in cases of sporadic breast cancer of the HER2 subtypes, besides a high percentage of HER2-amplifying tumors carry germline mutations of p53. The mechanisms responsible for the acquisition of oncogenic functions of p53 mutant proteins (mtp53), known as Gain of Function (GOF), over HER2 expression have not been reported. The objective of this study was to evaluate a possible relationship between p53 mutants and HER2 regulation.
METHODS: HER2 expression (transcription and protein), as well as HER2 protein stabilization have been evaluated after inducing or silencing of p53 mutants' expression in cell lines. Finally, we evaluated the interaction of the p53 mutants over the HER2 receptor promoter.
RESULTS: Higher HER2 expression in cell lines harboring endogenous mtp53 compared with wt or null expression of p53 cell lines. Transfection of p53 mutants (R248Q and R273C) in cell lines increased the expression of HER2. Silencing of p53 mutants, decrease HER2 expression. The p53 mutants R248Q and R273C significantly increase the luciferase activity on the HER2 promoter, and both mutants also promote acetylation of H3 and H4 histones binding in it.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings show for the first time that p53 mutants induce over-expression of HER2 at transcriptional level of the HER2 protein. Our results could have clinical implications in breast cancer and other types of cancer where HER2 is over-expressed and used as a therapy target.SLC30A8 encodes a zinc transporter that is primarily expressed in the pancreatic islets of Langerhans. In β-cells it transports zinc into insulin-containing secretory granules. Loss-of-function (LOF) mutations in SLC30A8 protect against type 2 diabetes in humans. In this study, we generated a knockin mouse model carrying one of the most common human LOF mutations for SLC30A8, R138X. The R138X mice had normal body weight, glucose tolerance, and pancreatic β-cell mass. Interestingly, in hyperglycemic conditions induced by the insulin receptor antagonist S961, the R138X mice showed a 50% increase in insulin secretion. This effect was not associated with enhanced β-cell proliferation or mass. Our data suggest that the SLC30A8 R138X LOF mutation may exert beneficial effects on glucose metabolism by increasing the capacity of β-cells to secrete insulin under hyperglycemic conditions.Lateral meningocele syndrome (LMS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by neurological complications and osteoporosis. LMS is associated with mutations in exon 33 of NOTCH3 leading to a truncated protein lacking sequences for NOTCH3 degradation and presumably causing NOTCH3 gain of function. To create a mouse model reproducing human LMS-associated mutations, we utilized CRISPR/Cas9 to introduce a tandem termination codon at bases 6691-6696 (ACCAAG→TAATGA) and verified this mutation (Notch3tm1.1Ecan ) by DNA sequencing of F1 mice. One-month-old male and female heterozygous Notch3tm1.1Ecan mice had cancellous and cortical bone osteopenia but exhibited no obvious neurological alterations, and histopathology of multiple organs revealed no abnormalities. Microcomputed tomography of these mutants revealed a 35-60% decrease in cancellous bone volume associated with a reduction in trabecular number and decreased connectivity. During maturation, cancellous and cortical bones were restored in female but not in male mice, which exhibited cancellous bone osteopenia at 4 months. Cancellous bone histomorphometry revealed increased osteoblast and osteocyte numbers and a modest increase in osteoclast surface and bone formation rate. Notch3tm1.1Ecan calvarial osteoblasts had increased proliferation and increased bone γ-carboxyglutamate protein (Bglap) and TNF superfamily member 11 (Tnfsf11) mRNA levels and lower Tnfrsf11b levels. Tnfsf11 mRNA was increased in osteocyte-rich femora from Notch3tm1.1Ecan mice. Cultures of bone marrow-derived macrophages from Notch3tm1.1Ecan mice revealed increased osteoclast formation, particularly in cocultures with osteoblasts from Notch3tm1.1Ecan mice. In conclusion, the Notch3tm1.1Ecan mutation causes osteopenia despite an increase in osteoblast proliferation and function and is associated with enhanced Tnfsf11 expression in osteoblasts and osteocytes.Gain-of-function ATP-binding cassette subfamily C member 8 (ABCC8) mutations are known to cause neonatal diabetes mellitus and maturity-onset diabetes in the young. However, the intrafamilial heterogeneous nature of diabetes caused by the ABCC8 mutation is not fully understood to date. To clarify the intrafamilial heterogeneous nature of monogenetic diabetes, we conducted a case study on a family with ABCC8 mutations. We investigated eight family members, including a neonatal diabetes patient, based on metabolic features and genetic analysis. All coding exons and exon-intron boundaries of the KCNJ11, ABCC8, GCK, HNF1A, and HNF4A genes were amplified from genomic DNA and directly sequenced. Five gene mutation carriers with ABCC8 (c.1819G>A/p.V607M) were identified in this family, and the onset and severity of diabetes progressively worsened across the three generations. Each of the ABCC8 gene mutation carrier family members were diagnosed with diabetes as follows: the grandfather with type 2 diabetes at 35 years of age, the aunt with slowly-progressive insulin-dependent diabetes at 18 years of age, the mother with ketosis-onset insulin-dependent diabetes at 14 years of age, the sister with impaired glucose tolerance at 9 years of age, and the proband with transient neonatal diabetes at birth. The present study shows the heterogeneous nature of diabetes in a family with a gain-of-function mutation in the ABCC8 gene.In addition to amplification, point mutations of the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) gene (ERBB2) have been shown to activate the corresponding signaling pathway in breast cancer. The prevalence of ERBB2/HER2 mutation in bone metastasis of breast cancer and the associated phenotype are not known. In this study, bone metastases from breast cancer patients (n = 231) were analyzed for ERBB2/HER2 mutation. In 7 patients (3%; median age 70 years, range 50-83 years), gain-of-function mutations of ERBB2/HER2 were detected. The most frequent mutation was p.L755S (71%). In 29% of mutated cases, p.V777L was found. Lobular breast cancer was present in 71% of mutated cases (n = 5) and in 49% of all samples (n = 231; p = 0.275). Mutation frequency was 4.4% in the lobular subgroup and 17.4% in the pleomorphic subtype of lobular cancer (n = 23), respectively. All but one mutated lobular cancers were of the pleomorphic subtype (p = 0.006). Mutated cancers belonged either to the luminal (n = 4) or to the triple-negative types (n = 3). With regard to protein expression and gene amplification, HER2 was negative in all mutated cases. Among the 14% of metastatic luminal cancers with estrogen receptor gene (ESR1) mutation, conveying resistance against aromatase inhibitors, no concomitant ERBB2/HER2 mutation occurred. We conclude that activating HER2 mutation is present in about 3% of bone metastases from breast cancers, with significantly higher rates in the pleomorphic subtype of lobular cancer. Since mutated cases appear to be HER2-negative by conventional testing, the opportunity for specific anti-HER2 therapy may be missed.Calcium (Ca2+) homeostasis is essential for neuronal function and survival. Altered Ca2+ homeostasis has been consistently observed in neurological diseases. How Ca2+ homeostasis is achieved in various cellular compartments of disease-relevant cell types is not well understood. Here we show in Drosophila Parkinson's disease (PD) models that Ca2+ transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to mitochondria through the ER-mitochondria contact site (ERMCS) critically regulates mitochondrial Ca2+ (mito-Ca2+) homeostasis in dopaminergic (DA) neurons, and that the PD-associated PINK1 protein modulates this process. In PINK1 mutant DA neurons, the ERMCS is strengthened and mito-Ca2+ level is elevated, resulting in mitochondrial enlargement and neuronal death. Miro, a well-characterized component of the mitochondrial trafficking machinery, mediates the effects of PINK1 on mito-Ca2+ and mitochondrial morphology, apparently in a transport-independent manner. Miro overexpression mimics PINK1 loss-of-function effect, whereas inhibition of Miro or components of the ERMCS, or pharmacological modulation of ERMCS function, rescued PINK1 mutant phenotypes. Mito-Ca2+ homeostasis is also altered in the LRRK2-G2019S model of PD and the PAR-1/MARK model of neurodegeneration, and genetic or pharmacological restoration of mito-Ca2+ level is beneficial in these models. Our results highlight the importance of mito-Ca2+ homeostasis maintained by Miro and the ERMCS to mitochondrial physiology and neuronal integrity. Targeting this mito-Ca2+ homeostasis pathway holds promise for a therapeutic strategy for neurodegenerative diseases.Bronchiectasis is a chronic disease characterized by airway infection and inflammation, leading to permanent dilation of the bronchi. Evaluation of underlying etiology is important in managing young bronchiectasis patients with recurrent infections caused by unusual pathogens. The signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) protein plays a key role in STAT signaling and immune system regulation. Heterozygotes for gain-of-function (GOF) alleles of the STAT1 gene usually display autosomal dominant chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis (CMC) and a wide range of clinical features, such as bronchiectasis. Here, we report on a patient with CMC and bronchiectasis with various types of infections who carried a pathogenic variant of the STAT1 gene. The 24-year-old female presented with recurrent respiratory bacterial and nontuberculous mycobacterial infections complicated by severe bronchiectasis and CMC. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a c.800C>T (p.Ala267Val) heterozygous mutation in the STAT1 gene. Further analysis by Sanger sequencing of STAT1 from the patient and her parents revealed the patient had a de novo occurrence of the variant. This is the first report of a Korean patient with a GOF pathogenic variant in STAT1. Physicians should be aware of the existence of this variant as a genetic factor associated with CMC and bronchiectasis complicated by recurrent infection.Mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) lead to Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), a neurodegenerative disease that disproportionately affects glutamatergic and cholinergic motor neurons. Previous work with SOD1 overexpression models supports a role for SOD1 toxic gain of function in ALS pathogenesis. However, the impact of SOD1 loss of function in ALS cannot be directly examined in overexpression models. In addition, overexpression may obscure the contribution of SOD1 loss of function in the degeneration of different neuronal populations. Here, we report the first single-copy, ALS knock-in models in C. elegans generated by transposon- or CRISPR/Cas9- mediated genome editing of the endogenous sod-1 gene. Introduction of ALS patient amino acid changes A4V, H71Y, L84V, G85R or G93A into the C. elegans sod-1 gene yielded single-copy/knock-in ALS SOD1 models. These differ from previously reported overexpression models in multiple assays. In single-copy/knock-in models, we observed differential impact of sod-1 ALS alleles on glutamatergic and cholinergic neurodegeneration. A4V, H71Y, G85R, and G93A animals showed increased SOD1 protein accumulation and oxidative stress induced degeneration, consistent with a toxic gain of function in cholinergic motor neurons. By contrast, H71Y, L84V, and G85R lead to glutamatergic neuron degeneration due to sod-1 loss of function after oxidative stress. However, dopaminergic and serotonergic neuronal populations were spared in single-copy ALS models, suggesting a neuronal-subtype specificity previously not reported in invertebrate ALS SOD1 models. Combined, these results suggest that knock-in models may reproduce the neurotransmitter-type specificity of ALS and that both SOD1 loss and gain of toxic function differentially contribute to ALS pathogenesis in different neuronal populations.Mutations in genes encoding subunits of the phagocyte NADPH oxidase complex are recognized to cause chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), a severe primary immunodeficiency. Here we describe how deficiency of CYBC1, a previously uncharacterized protein in humans (C17orf62), leads to reduced expression of NADPH oxidase's main subunit (gp91phox) and results in CGD. Analyzing two brothers diagnosed with CGD we identify a homozygous loss-of-function mutation, p.Tyr2Ter, in CYBC1. Imputation of p.Tyr2Ter into 155K chip-genotyped Icelanders reveals six additional homozygotes, all with signs of CGD, manifesting as colitis, rare infections, or a severely impaired PMA-induced neutrophil oxidative burst. Homozygosity for p.Tyr2Ter consequently associates with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in Iceland (P = 8.3 × 10-8; OR = 67.6), as well as reduced height (P = 3.3 × 10-4; -8.5 cm). Overall, we find that CYBC1 deficiency results in CGD characterized by colitis and a distinct profile of infections indicative of macrophage dysfunction.The zea1 mutant of marine microalga Dunaliella tertiolecta accumulates zeaxanthin under normal growth conditions, and its phenotype has been speculated to be related to zeaxanthin epoxidase (ZEP). In this study, we isolated the ZEP gene from both wild-type D. tertiolecta and the mutant. We found that the zea1 mutant has a point mutation of the 1337th nucleotide of the ZEP sequence (a change from guanine to adenine), resulting in a change of glycine to aspartate in a highly conserved region in the catalytic domain. Similar expression levels of ZEP mRNA and protein in both wild-type and zea1 were confirmed by using qRT-PCR and western blot analysis, respectively. Additionally, the enzyme activity analysis of ZEPs in the presence of cofactors showed that the inactivation of ZEP in zea1 was not caused by deficiency in the levels of cofactors. From the predicted three-dimensional ZEP structure of zea1, we observed a conformational change on the substrate-binding site in the ZEP. A comparative analysis of the ZEP structures suggested that the conformational change induced by a single amino acid mutation might impact the interaction between the substrate and substrate-binding site, resulting in loss of zeaxanthin epoxidase function.In genetic screens aimed at understanding drug resistance mechanisms in chronic myeloid leukemia cells, inactivation of the cullin 3 adapter protein-encoding leucine zipper-like transcription regulator 1 (LZTR1) gene led to enhanced mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway activity and reduced sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Knockdown of the Drosophila LZTR1 ortholog CG3711 resulted in a Ras-dependent gain-of-function phenotype. Endogenous human LZTR1 associates with the main RAS isoforms. Inactivation of LZTR1 led to decreased ubiquitination and enhanced plasma membrane localization of endogenous KRAS (V-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog). We propose that LZTR1 acts as a conserved regulator of RAS ubiquitination and MAPK pathway activation. Because LZTR1 disease mutations failed to revert loss-of-function phenotypes, our findings provide a molecular rationale for LZTR1 involvement in a variety of inherited and acquired human disorders.Importance: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia affecting 1% of the population. Young individuals with AF have a strong genetic association with the disease, but the mechanisms remain incompletely understood.
Objective: To perform large-scale whole-genome sequencing to identify genetic variants related to AF.
Design, Setting, and Participants: The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine Program includes longitudinal and cohort studies that underwent high-depth whole-genome sequencing between 2014 and 2017 in 18 526 individuals from the United States, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Barbados, and Samoa. This case-control study included 2781 patients with early-onset AF from 9 studies and identified 4959 controls of European ancestry from the remaining participants. Results were replicated in the UK Biobank (346 546 participants) and the MyCode Study (42 782 participants).
Exposures: Loss-of-function (LOF) variants in genes at AF loci and common genetic variation across the whole genome.
Main Outcomes and Measures: Early-onset AF (defined as AF onset in persons <66 years of age). Due to multiple testing, the significance threshold for the rare variant analysis was P = 4.55 × 10-3.
Results: Among 2781 participants with early-onset AF (the case group), 72.1% were men, and the mean (SD) age of AF onset was 48.7 (10.2) years. Participants underwent whole-genome sequencing at a mean depth of 37.8 fold and mean genome coverage of 99.1%. At least 1 LOF variant in TTN, the gene encoding the sarcomeric protein titin, was present in 2.1% of case participants compared with 1.1% in control participants (odds ratio [OR], 1.76 [95% CI, 1.04-2.97]). The proportion of individuals with early-onset AF who carried a LOF variant in TTN increased with an earlier age of AF onset (P value for trend, 4.92 × 10-4), and 6.5% of individuals with AF onset prior to age 30 carried a TTN LOF variant (OR, 5.94 [95% CI, 2.64-13.35]; P = 1.65 × 10-5). The association between TTN LOF variants and AF was replicated in an independent study of 1582 patients with early-onset AF (cases) and 41 200 control participants (OR, 2.16 [95% CI, 1.19-3.92]; P = .01).
Conclusions and Relevance: In a case-control study, there was a statistically significant association between an LOF variant in the TTN gene and early-onset AF, with the variant present in a small percentage of participants with early-onset AF (the case group). Further research is necessary to understand whether this is a causal relationship.Retinoic acid inducible gene-I (RIG-I) ensures immune surveillance of viral RNAs bearing a 5'-triphosphate (5'ppp) moiety. Mutations in RIG-I (C268F and E373A) lead to impaired ATPase activity, thereby driving hyperactive signaling associated with autoimmune diseases. Here we report, using hydrogen/deuterium exchange, mechanistic models for dysregulated RIG-I proofreading that ultimately result in the improper recognition of cellular RNAs bearing 7-methylguanosine and N1-2'-O-methylation (Cap1) on the 5' end. Cap1-RNA compromises its ability to stabilize RIG-I helicase and blunts caspase activation and recruitment domains (CARD) partial opening by threefold. RIG-I H830A mutation restores Cap1-helicase engagement as well as CARDs partial opening event to a level comparable to that of 5'ppp. However, E373A RIG-I locks the receptor in an ATP-bound state, resulting in enhanced Cap1-helicase engagement and a sequential CARDs stimulation. C268F mutation renders a more tethered ring architecture and results in constitutive CARDs signaling in an ATP-independent manner.A loss-of-function variant in the gene encoding the prolactin receptor ( PRLR) was reported previously in a woman with persistent postpartum galactorrhea; however, this paradoxical phenotype is not completely understood. Here we describe a 35-year-old woman who presented with idiopathic hyperprolactinemia that was associated with a complete lack of lactation after each of her two deliveries. She is a compound heterozygote for loss-of-function variants of PRLR. Her unaffected parents are heterozygotes. These findings are consistent with previous work showing that mice deficient in functional Prlr do not lactate.KEY MESSAGE: The WRKY transcription factor WRKY12 negatively regulates Cd tolerance in Arabidopsis via the glutathione-dependent phytochelatin synthesis pathway by directly targeting GSH1 and indirectly repressing phytochelatin synthesis-related gene expression. Cadmium (Cd) is a widespread pollutant toxic to plants. The glutathione (GSH)-dependent phytochelatin (PC) synthesis pathway plays key roles in Cd detoxification. However, its regulatory mechanism remains largely unknown. Here, we showed a previously unknown function of the WRKY transcription factor WRKY12 in the regulation of Cd tolerance by repressing the expression of PC synthesis-related genes. The expression of WRKY12 was inhibited by Cd stress. Enhanced Cd tolerance was observed in the WRKY12 loss-of-function mutants, whereas increased Cd sensitivity was found in the WRKY12-overexpressing plants. Overexpression and loss-of-function of WRKY12 were associated respectively with increased and decreased Cd accumulation by repressing or releasing the expression of the genes involved in the PC synthesis pathway. Transient expression assay showed that WRKY12 repressed the expression of GSH1, GSH2, PCS1, and PCS2. Further analysis indicated that WRKY12 could directly bind to the W-box of the promoter in GSH1 but not in GSH2, PCS1, and PCS2 in vivo. Together, our results suggest that WRKY12 directly targets GSH1 and indirectly represses PC synthesis-related gene expression to negatively regulate Cd accumulation and tolerance in Arabidopsis.Aberrant sperm flagella impair sperm motility and cause male infertility, yet the genes which have been identified in multiple morphological abnormalities of the flagella (MMAF) can only explain the pathogenic mechanisms of MMAF in a small number of cases. Here, we identify and functionally characterize homozygous loss-of-function mutations of QRICH2 in two infertile males with MMAF from two consanguineous families. Remarkably, Qrich2 knock-out (KO) male mice constructed by CRISPR-Cas9 technology present MMAF phenotypes and sterility. To elucidate the mechanisms of Qrich2 functioning in sperm flagellar formation, we perform proteomic analysis on the testes of KO and wild-type mice. Furthermore, in vitro experiments indicate that QRICH2 is involved in sperm flagellar development through stabilizing and enhancing the expression of proteins related to flagellar development. Our findings strongly suggest that the genetic mutations of human QRICH2 can lead to male infertility with MMAF and that QRICH2 is essential for sperm flagellar formation.